内容简介
⻢克 • 道格拉斯是少数⼏位合格的交易⼼理辅导师，他的著作《交易⼼
理分析》是许多⼈推荐的交易⼼理分析经典。在《交易⼼理分析》
中，作者⼀语道破赢家的思考⽅式，并提供了具体的训练⽅法。不论
你是初⼊股市的新⼿，或是股票买卖的⽼⼿，如果你想在股市中持续
⼀贯地获利，你都应该读⼀读这本关于股票交易⼼理学的书，它会让
你超脱输家轮回，晋升为市场赢家。。
foreword
序⾔
the great bull market in stocks has led to an equally great bull market in the
number of books published on the subject of how to make money trading
the markets. many ideas abound, some good, some not, some original, some
just a repackaging of earlier works. occasionally, though, a writer comes
forward with something that really sets him or her apart from the pack,
something special. one such writer is mark douglas.
⼤⽜市导致出版社出了很多书，这些书都是谈如何通过交易赚钱。有
很多思想，有些很好，有些则不⾏，有些是原创的，有些只是把以前
的作品再重新包装⼀下⽽已。偶尔，⼀些作者会脱颖⽽出，写出特殊
的作品。其中⼀个作者就是⻢克 · 道格拉斯。
mark douglas, in trading in the zone, has written a book that is the
accumulation of years of thought and research - the work of a lifetime - and
for those of us who view trading as a profession, he has produced a gem.
在⻢克 · 道格拉斯的书《交易⼼理分析》中，展⽰了他多年的思想和研
究 -- ⼀⽣的⼼⾎ -- 对于我们把交易当作职业的⼈来说，他给我们的是⼀
块宝⽯。

trading in the zone is an in-depth look at the challenges that we face when
we take up the challenge of trading. to the novice, the only challenge
appears to be to find a way to make money. once the novice learns that tips,
brokers' advice, and other ways to justify buying or selling do not work
consistently, he discovers that he either needs to develop a reliable trading
strategy or purchase one. after that, trading should be easy, right? all you
have to do is follow the rules, and the money will fall into your lap.
我们在交易时会遇到挑战，《交易⼼理分析》则对这些挑战提供了深
刻的⻅解。对于新⼿来说，唯⼀的挑战似乎就是找到赚钱的⽅法。当
新⼿明⽩消息，经纪公司的建议和其它买卖⽅法都不能持续⼀致赢利
时，他发现要么⾃⼰设计⼀个可靠的交易系统，要么去买⼀个。完成
了这个任务，交易就简单了，对不？你要做的就是遵守原则，这样钱
就来了。
at this point, if not before, novices discover that trading can turn into one of
the most frustrating experiences they will ever face. this experience leads to
the oft-started statistic that 95 percent of futures traders lose all of their
money within the first year of trading. stock traders generally experience
the same results, which is why pundits always point to the fact that most
stock traders fail to outperform a simple buy and hold investment scenario.
这时，如果新⼿以前没有体验过的话，现在就会发现交易进⼊了前所
未有的艰难阶段。统计的结果表明， 95% 的期货交易者会在第⼀年把
钱亏光，⽽新⼿就要体验这样的事。股票交易者通常也会体验同样的
结果，这就是为什么权威⼈⼠说⼤部分股票交易者的表现还不如买⼊
并持有的投资策略。
so, why do people, the majority of whom are extremely successful in other
occupations, fail so miserably as traders? are successful traders born and
not made? mark douglas says no. what's necessary, he says, is that the
individual acquire the trader's mindset. it sounds easy, but the fact is, this
mindset is very foreign when compared with the way our life experiences
teach us to think about the world.

那么，为什么⼤部分⼈在做其它职业时超级成功，做交易时就输的这
么惨呢？成功的交易者是天⽣的吗？⻢克 · 道格拉斯说不是的。他说需
要有交易者的思想。这听起来很简单，但事实上，交易者的思想和⽣
活中我们看待世界的⽅法完全不同。
that 95-percent failure rate makes sense when you consider how most of us
experience life, using skills learned as we grow. when it comes to trading,
however, it turns out that the skills we learn to earn high marks in school,
advance our careers, and create relationships with other people, the skills
we are taught that should carry us through life, turn out to be inappropriate
for trading. traders, we find out, must learn to think in terms of probabilities
and to surrender all of the skills we have acquired to achieve in virtually
every other aspect of our lives. in trading in the zone, mark douglas teaches
us how. he has put together a very valuable book. his sources are his own
personal experiences as a trader, a traders coach in chicago, author, and
lecturer in his field of trading psychology.
当你想想⼤部分⼈在⽣活中是如何思考的，如何在成⻓中学习技术
的，你就明⽩ 95% 的失败率是合理的。我们在学校努⼒得⾼分，在职
业⽣涯中往上爬，和别⼈建⽴友好关系，这些都是我们在成⻓中学习
的技术技巧，然⽽对于交易来说，这些技术技巧都是不合适的。交易
者必须学习概率，并放弃我们⽣活中学到的⽅⽅⾯⾯的技术技巧。⻢
克 · 道格拉斯会在《交易⼼理分析》中告诉我们如何做到。这本书很有
价值。他⾃⼰是交易者、芝加哥的交易教练、作家、交易⼼理分析演
讲家，这些经验是本书的源泉。
my recommendation? enjoy douglas's trading in the zone and, in doing so,
develop a trader's mindset.
我有什么推荐？我建议你阅读⻢克 · 道格拉斯的《交易⼼理分析》并形
成交易者的思想。
thorn hartle

索恩 · 哈特尔
preface
引⼦
the goal of any trader is to turn profits on a regular basis, yet so few people
ever really make consistent money as traders. what accounts for the small
percentage of traders who are consistently successful? to me, the
determining factor is psychological - the consistent winners think
differently from everyone else.
每个交易者的⽬标都是稳定赚钱，但是只有极少数的交易者实现了持
续⼀致地赚钱。他们是如何实现持续⼀致赚钱的？对我来说，决定因
素是⼼理 -- 持续⼀致的赢家和别⼈想的不⼀样。
i started trading in 1978. at the time, i was managing a commercial casualty
insurance agency in the suburbs of detroit, michigan. i had a very successful
career and thought i could easily transfer that success into trading.
unfortunately, i found that was not the case. by 1981, i was thoroughly
disgusted with my inability to trade effectively while holding another job,
so i moved to chicago and got a job as a broker with merrill lynch at the
chicago board of trade. how did i do? well, within nine months of moving
to chicago, i had lost nearly everything i owned. my losses were the result
of both my trading activities and my exorbitant life style, which demanded
that i make a lot of money as a trader.
我 1978 年开始交易。当时，我在密歇根州底特律城郊管理⼀个商业的
伤残保险分公司。我的职业⽣涯⾮常成功，我想我可以把我的成功移
植到交易中。很不幸，我失败了。到了 1981 年，我对⾃⼰⼀⽅⾯要⼯
作，⼀⽅⼜交易不顺⽽彻底苦恼。于是我搬到芝加哥，在芝加哥交易
所美林证券经纪公司找了⼀份⼯作，做经纪⼈。我是怎么做的？嗯，

搬到芝加哥 9 个⽉后，我⼏乎失去了⼀切。我本想做交易赚很多钱，但
是我的交易⾏为和昂贵的交易⻛格让我⼏乎失去了⼀切。
from these early experiences as a trader, i learned an enormous amount
about myself, and about the role of psychology in trading. as a result, in
1982, i started working on my first book, the disciplined trader: developing
winning attitudes. when i began this project i had no concept of how
difficult it was to write a book or explain something that i understood for
myself in a manner and form that would be useful to other people. i thought
it was going to take me between six and nine months to get the job done. it
took seven and a half years and was finally published by prentice hall in
1990.
通过早期的交易，我对⾃⼰和交易⼼理扮演的⾓⾊有了很多了解。结
果，我在 1982 年开始写我的第⼀本书《有纪律的交易者 -- 形成赢家态
度》。当我开始写书时，我才知道把⾃⼰的思想写成对别⼈有⽤的东
⻄是多么难。我以为 6--9 个⽉可以完成此书。结果写了 7 年半，于 1990
年由普林蒂斯霍尔出版公司出版。
in 1983, i left merrill lynch to start a consulting firm, trading behavior
dynamics, where i presently develop and conduct seminars on trading
psychology and act in the capacity of what is commonly referred to as a
trading coach. i've done countless presentations for trading companies,
clearing firms, brokerage houses, banks, and investment conferences all
over the world. i've worked at a personal level, one on one, with virtually
every type of trader in the business, including some of the biggest floor
traders, hedgers, option specialists, and ctas, as well as neophytes.
1983 年我离开了美林，办了⼀个顾问公司叫 " 交易⾏为动⼒ " ，我设计
了⼀个研讨会，我⾃⼰做交易教练，教别⼈交易⼼理。我为全世界⽆
数的交易公司、清算公司、经纪公司、银⾏、投资会议做演讲。我采
⽤⼀对⼀的⽅式，⼏乎和每种类型的交易者都接触过，包括最⼤的场
内交易者、对冲者、期权专家、商品交易顾问和新⼿。

as of this writing, i have spent the last seventeen years dissecting the
psychological dynamics behind trading so that i could develop effective
methods for teaching the proper principles of success. what i've discovered
is that, at the most fundamental level, there is a problem with the way we
think. there is something inherent in the way our minds work that doesn't fit
very well with the characteristics shown by the markets.
当我写到这⾥时，我应经⽤了 17 年时间剖析交易⼼理，所以我可以形
成有效的⽅法教别⼈成功的原则。我发现，从最基本的⽅⾯说，我们
的思想⽅式有问题。我们天⽣的思想模式和市场特点是不搭配的。
those traders who have confidence in their own trades, who trust themselves
to do what needs to be done without hesitation, are the ones who become
successful. they no longer fear the erratic behavior of the market. they learn
to focus on the information that helps them spot opportunities to make a
profit, rather than focusing on the information that reinforces their fears.
对⾃⼰的交易有⾃信，知道怎么做，不犹豫的交易者会成功。他们不
害怕市场飘忽不定的⾏为。他们关注能赚钱的信息，⽽不是关注会增
加他们害怕感的信息。
while this may sound complicated, it all boils down to learning to believe
that: (1) you don't need to know what's going to happen next to make
money; (2) anything can happen; and (3) every moment is unique, meaning
every edge and outcome is truly a unique experience. the trade either works
or it doesn't. in any case, you wait for the next edge to appear and go
through the process again and again. with this approach you will learn in a
methodical, non-random fashion what works and what doesn't. and, just as
important, you will build a sense of self-trust so that you won't damage
yourself in an environment that has the unlimited qualities the markets
have.
这听起来也许复杂，总结下来就是你要学习并相信：（ 1 ）你不必知道
下⼀步会如何也能赚钱；（ 2 ）任何事都会发⽣；（ 3 ）任何时刻都是
独特的，这意味着每个优势，每个结果都是独特的体验。交易不是成

功就是失败。在每笔交易中，你等待优势的到来，然后⼀次⼜⼀次地
重复这个过程。⽤这种⽅法，你就会知道什么有⽤，什么没⽤。还有
重要的⼀点，你要⾃⼰建⽴⾃信，以防⽌市场⽆数的特点毁了你。
most traders don't believe that their trading problems are the result of the
way they think about trading or, more specifically, how they are thinking
while they are trading. in my first book, the disciplined trader, i identified
the problems confronting the trader from a mental perspective and then
built a philosophical framework for understanding the nature of these
problems and why they exist. i had five major objectives in mind in writing
trading in the zone:
⼤部分交易者不相信他们的交易问题来⾃他们的思想，更具体地说，
是他们的交易思想。在我的第⼀本书《有纪律的交易者》中，我⽤精
神的⾓度来确定交易者的问题，⽤哲学的框架来解释这些问题的⾃然
性，以及原因。我在写《交易⼼理分析》时有 5 个重要的⽬标：
to prove to the trader that more or better market analysis is not the solution
to his trading difficulties or lack of consistent results.
向交易者证明更多更好的市场分析不能解决交易问题，不能实现持续
⼀致赢利。
to convince the trader that it's his attitude and "state of mind" that determine
his results.
让交易者相信他的态度和思想状态决定他的结果。
to provide the trader with the specific beliefs and attitudes that are
necessary to build a winner's mindset, which means learning how to think in
probabilities.
向交易者提供明确的信念和态度，也就是赢家思想必须的，这意味着
如何⽤概率思考。

to address the many conflicts, contradictions, and paradoxes in thinking that
cause the typical trader to assume that he already does think in probabilities,
when he really doesn't.
说明很多冲突的、⽭盾的、似是⽽⾮的想法，这些想法让交易者以为
他在思考概率，其实他没有。
to take the trader through a process that integrates this thinking strategy into
his mental system at a functional level.
带领交易者⾛过这个过程，把他的思考策略和思想系统结合起来，且
具有可操作性。
(note: until recently, most traders were men, but i recognize that more and
more women are joining the ranks. in an effort to avoid confusion and
awkward phrasing, i have consistently used the pronoun "he" throughout
this book in describing traders. this certainly does not reflect any bias on
my part.)
（注意：⽬前，⼤部分交易者是男性，但我注意到越来越多的⼥性开
始交易。为了避免混乱和表达的不⽅便，我在本书中⼀直⽤ " 他 " 来描
述交易者。这肯定不代表我有偏⻅。）
trading in the zone presents a serious psychological approach to becoming a
consistent winner in your trading. i do not offer a trading system; i am more
interested in showing you how to think in the way necessary to become a
profitable trader. i assume that you already have your own system, your
own edge. you must learn to trust your edge. the edge means there is a
higher probability of one outcome than another. the greater your
confidence, the easier it will be to execute your trades. this book is designed
to give you the insight and understanding you need about yourself and the
nature of trading, so that actually doing it becomes as easy, simple, and
stressfree as when you're just watching the market and thinking about doing
it.

《交易⼼理分析》提供了认真的⼼理⽅法，让你成为持续⼀致的赢
家。我没有提供交易系统，我更⼤的兴趣是告诉你如何思考，以成为
赢利的交易者。我相信你已经有了⾃⼰的系统，有了⾃⼰的优势。你
必须努⼒地去相信你的优势。优势意味着⽐较⾼的概率。你越⾃信，
你越容易进⾏交易。本书帮助你深刻认识你⾃⼰和交易的本性，这样
当你实际操作时，你看着市场，思考交易时，⾏动就容易了，简单
了，压⼒也⼩了。
in order to determine how well you "think like a trader," take the following
attitude survey. there are no right or wrong answers. your answers are an
indication of how consistent your current mental framework is with the way
you need to think in order to get the most out of your trading.
为了确定你是否 " 像交易者⼀样思考， " 请进⾏下⾯的态度调查。这⾥
没有正确答案或错误答案。你的答案表明了你的思想框架和尽量多赚
钱的想法之间的持续⼀致性。
mark douglas
⻢克 · 道格拉斯
Acknowledgments
感谢词
i would especially like to thank all of the traders who bought the signed
limited edition manuscript of the first seven chapters of this book. your
feedback gave me the inspiration to add the additional four chapters.
我特别感谢购买了有本⼈签字，只有前 7 章底稿限量版的交易者。你们
的回复给了我灵感，我⼜多写了 4 章。
next, i would like to thank fellow traders robert st. john, greg bieber, larry
pesavento, and ted hearne for their friendship and the special ways in which