mental (interior) environment. the problem is that none of these techniques
work with the market. the market doesn't respond to control and
manipulation (unless you're a very large trader).
很多成功⼈⼠在交易时惨败的⼀个主要原因是他们为了得到⾃⼰想要
的可以⽤⾃⼰的超级能⼒成功地应付并控制社会环境。从某种程度上
说，我们都学到了或形成了⼀些技术，让外部环境和我们的思想（内
部）环境协调持续⼀致。问题是这些技术和市场都不搭配。市场不理
会你的控制和应付（除⾮你是很⼤的⼤户）。
however, we can control our perception and interpretation of market
information, as well as our own behavior. instead of controlling our
surroundings so they conform to our idea of the way things should be, we
can learn to control ourselves. then we can perceive information from the
most objective perspective possible, and structure our mental environment
so that we always behave in a manner that is in our own best interest.
然⽽，对于市场信息，我们可以像控制我们的⾏为⼀样控制我们的认
知和理解。我们不要控制周围环境让它们适应我们的想法，我们可以
学习如何控制⾃⼰。这样我们就可以⽤最客观的⽅法认知信息并组织
我们的思想环境，这样我们就能⽤最有利的⽅式操作。

Chapter 3 taking responsibility

第  03 章  ⾃⼰承担责任
although the words "taking responsibility" sound simple, the concept is
neither easy to grasp nor easy to put into practice in your trading. we have
all heard the words and been confronted with the need to take responsibility
so many times in our lives that it is easy to take for granted that we know
exactly what the phrase means.

虽然 " ⾃⼰承担责任 " 听起来简单，在交易时，这个概念既难掌握，⼜
难执⾏。这种说法，我们在⽣活中听到了很多次，也⾯对了要⾃⼰承
担责任的时候，所以我们以为我们理解这句话的含义。
taking responsibility in your trading and learning the appropriate principles
of success are inextricably connected. you have to understand, with every
fiber of your being, the ways in which you are and are not responsible for
your success as a trader. only then can you take on the characteristics that
will allow you to join the select group of traders who are consistently
successful in the markets.
在交易时⾃⼰承担责任和采⽤合适的成功原则是紧密联系的。你必须
明⽩，你的⼀丝⼀毫，⼀举⼀动都需要你⾃⼰承担责任，以成为成功
的交易者。只有你做到了在很多特点上⾃⼰承担责任，你才能在市场
中成为持续⼀致的赢家，和持续⼀致的赢家站在⼀起。
at the end of chapter 1, i introduced the idea of stepping into a future
projection of yourself. in other words, the consistently successful trader that
you want to become doesn't exist yet. you must create a new version of
yourself, just as a sculptor creates a likeness of a model.
在第 01 章的末尾，我提到了⾛⼊⾃⼰未来的投影。换句话说，你想成
为持续⼀致的赢家，但现在还不是。就像雕塑家雕塑⼀样，你必须塑
造⼀个新版本的你。
shaping your mental environment
塑造你的思想环境
the tools you will use to create this new version of yourself are your
willingness and desire to learn, fueled by your passion to be successful. if
the willingness and desire to learn are your primary tools, then what is your
medium? an artist creating a sculpture can choose to work in a number of
mediums - clay, marble, or metal, for example - but if you want to create a
new version of your personality that expresses itself as a consistently

successful trader, you have only your beliefs and attitudes. the medium for
your artistic endeavor will be your mental environment, where with your
desire to learn, you can restructure and install the beliefs and attitudes that
are necessary to achieve your ultimate goal.
要塑造⼀个新版本的你，⼯具就是你想成功的愿望、欲望和激情。如
果愿望和欲望是基本的⼯具，那么什么是中等的⼯具？
i am assuming your ultimate goal is consistency. if you're like most traders,
you don't realize the fullest potential of the opportunities available to you.
to realize more and more of that potential, to make it more and more of a
reality in your life, your primary goal has to be to learn how to think like a
consistently successful trader.
我估计你的终极⽬标是持续⼀致性。如果你和⼤部分交易者⼀样，那
么你不知道最有可能的机会。要想了解越来越多的可能机会，要想把
潜在机会变得越来越真，你的基本⽬标就是学习如何像持续⼀致性的
成功交易者⼀样思考。
remember, the best traders think in a number of unique ways. they have
acquired a mental structure that allows them to trade without fear and, at the
same time, keeps them from becoming reckless and committing fear-based
errors. this mind-set has a number of components, but the bottom line is that
successful traders have virtually eliminated the effects of fear and
recklessness from their trading. these two fundamental characteristics allow
them to achieve consistent results.
记住，最优秀的交易者⽤很多独特的⽅式思考。他们已经形成的思想
结构可以让他们在交易时没有害怕，同时防⽌你变得轻率，因害怕⽽
犯错。这种思想有很多特点，但最关键的是成功的交易者消除了害怕
和轻率的影响。这两个基本的特点能帮助他们实现持续⼀致性的结
果。
when you acquire this mind-set, you, too, will be able to trade without fear.
you will no longer be susceptible to the multitude of fear-based errors that

come from rationalizing, subconsciously distorting information, hesitating,
jumping the gun, or hoping. once the fear is gone, there just won't be a
reason to make these errors and, as a result, they will virtually disappear
from your trading.
⼀旦你有了这样的思想，你在交易时也不会害怕。你不再因为找理
由、下意识地扭曲信息、犹豫、⾏动过早或期望等恐惧⽽犯错。⼀旦
恐惧消失了，再也没有理由犯错了，结果就是它们从你的交易中真正
消失。
however, eliminating fear is only half the equation. the other half is the need
to develop restraint. excellent traders have learned that it is essential to have
internal discipline or a mental mechanism to counteract the negative effects
of euphoria or the overconfidence that comes from a string of winning
trades. for a trader, winning is extremely dangerous if you haven't learned
how to monitor and control yourself.
然⽽，消除恐惧只是⾛了⼀半的路。另外⼀半路就是形成克制。优秀
的交易者已经明⽩⽤内部纪律或思想机械系统对付因⼀连串赢利引起
的过度兴奋或过度⾃信等消极影响。对于交易者来说，如果你不知道
如何监视和控制⾃⼰，赢利是超级危险的。
if we start from the premise that to create consistency traders must focus
their efforts on developing a trader's mind-set, then it is easy to see why so
many traders don't succeed. instead of learning to think like traders, they
think about how they can make more money by learning about the markets.
it's almost impossible not to fall into this trap. there are a number of
psychological factors that make it very easy to assume that it's what you
don't know about the markets that causes your losses and lack of consistent
results.
如果我们在⼀开始就知道持续⼀致性的交易者必须关注于形成交易者
的思想，那么就容易知道为什么很多交易者失败了。他们不是学习如
何像交易者⼀样思考，他们在想如何通过学习市场赚更多钱。很容易

跌进这个陷阱。有⼀些⼼理因素让你很容易地相信你不了解市场导致
你亏损，⽆法得到持续⼀致性的结果。
however, that's just not the case. the consistency you seek is in your mind,
not in the markets. it's attitudes and beliefs about being wrong, losing
money, and the tendency to become reckless, when you're feeling good, that
cause most losses - not technique or market knowledge.
然⽽并⾮如此。你寻求的持续⼀致性在你的思想⾥，不是在市场⾥。
是因为态度和信念错了，所以亏钱；当你感觉很好时，持续⼀致性变
成了轻率，导致更多的亏损 -- 不是因为技术或市场信息的问题。
for example, if you could choose one of the following two traders to
manage your money, which one would you pick? the first trader uses a
simple, possibly even mediocre trading technique, but possesses a mind-set
that is not susceptible to subconsciously distorting market information,
hesitating, rationalizing, hoping, or jumping the gun. the second trader is a
phenomenal analyst, but is still operating out of the typical fears that make
him susceptible to all of the psychological maladies that the other trader is
free of. the right choice should be obvious. the first trader is going to
achieve far better results with your money.
⽐如，如果从下⾯两个交易者⾥⾯选⼀个帮你管理资⾦，你选择哪
个？第⼀个交易者采⽤简单的，甚⾄是普通的交易技术，但是他拥有
的思想让你不会受下意识地扭曲市场信息，犹豫，找理由或过早⾏动
的影响。第⼆个交易者是著名的分析师，但是受所有第⼀个交易者没
有的交易弊端的影响。正确的选择很明显。第⼀个交易者将会取得⽐
较好的结果。
attitude produces better overall results than analysis or technique. of course,
the ideal situation is to have both, but you really don't need both, because if
you have the right attitude - the right mind-set - then everything else about
trading will be relatively easy, even simple, and certainly a lot more fun. i
know for some of you this may be difficult to believe, or even distressing

especially if you've been struggling for years to learn everything you can
about the market.
总体⽽⾔，态度⽐分析或技术更能产⽣⽐较好的结果。当然，理想状
态是都拥有，但也没有必要都拥有，因为如果你有正确的态度 -- 正确
的思想 -- 那么交易的所有⽅⾯都会变得相对轻松，简单，肯定更有
趣。我知道对于⼀些⼈来说，他们很难相信，特别是如果你花了很多
年的时间研究市场的⽅⽅⾯⾯，你会觉得这个说法让你痛苦，难以接
受。
interestingly, most traders are closer to the way they need to think when
they first begin trading than at any other time in their careers. many people
begin trading with a very unrealistic concept of the inherent dangers
involved. this is particularly true if their first trade is a winner. then they go
into the second trade with little or no fear. if that trade is a winner, they go
into the next trade with even less concern for what would otherwise be the
unacceptable possibility of a loss. each subsequent win convinces them that
there is nothing to fear and that trading is the easiest possible way to make
money.
有趣的是，和其它事业相⽐，⼤部分交易者都知道在开始交易之前要
多思考。很多⼈⽤天⽣危险的不实际的概念开始交易。如果他们第⼀
次赚钱了，这些概念就更真实。然后他们第⼆次交易时就不怎么害怕
了。如果第⼆次还是赚钱的，那么第三次交易时他们不再关⼼可能的
⽆法接受的亏损。每次赚钱都让他们确信没有什么好怕的，交易赚钱
太轻松了。
this lack of fear translates into a carefree state of mind, similar to the state
of mind many great athletes describe as a "zone." if you've ever had the
occasion to experience the zone in some sport, then you know it is a state of
mind in which there is absolutely no fear and you act and react instinctively.
you don't weigh alternatives or consider consequences or second-guess
yourself. you are in the moment and "just doing it." whatever you do turns
out to be exactly what needed to be done.

不害怕变成了思想上的⽆忧⽆虑，和很多优秀运动员说的 " 状态 " 很相
似。如果你在体育⽅⾯偶尔体验了这种状态，那么在思想上就是绝对
不害怕，你⾃发地⾏动或反应。你不衡量其它可能或不考虑结果或猜
疑⾃⼰。你的思想就是 " 尽管去做 " 。不管你做什么，那正是你要做
的。
most athletes never reach this level of play, because they never get past the
fear of making a mistake. athletes who reach the point where there is
absolutely no fear of the consequences of screwing up will usually, and
quite spontaneously, enter into "the zone." by the way, a psychological zone
is not a condition you can will yourself into, the way you can will yourself
into a feat of endurance. it is a state of mind you find yourself in that is
inherently creative, and usually if you start thinking about your actions at a
rational or conscious level, you pop right out of it.
⼤部分运动员永远不会达到这个⽔平，因为他们⽆法逾越害怕犯错这
个⼼理。绝对不害怕或不担⼼犯错的运动员通常会到达这个 " 状态 " 。
顺便说⼀下，⼼理状态不会像你把⾃⼰想象成有能⼒那么简单。这种
思想状态是天⽣的创造⼒，如果你为你的⾏动下意识地找理由，你就
不算。
even though you cannot force or will yourself into a zone, you can set up
the kind of mental conditions that are most conducive to experiencing "the
zone," by developing a positive winning attitude. i define a positive
winning attitude as expecting a positive result from your efforts, with an
acceptance that whatever results you get are a perfect reflection of your
level of development and what you need to learn to do better.
即使你不能迫使或把⾃⼰想象到这个状态，你可以通过形成赢家的态
度来建⽴⼀种思想状态以体验这种 " 状态 " 。赢家的态度就是指通过努
⼒期待积极的结果，同时接受不管是什么结果，都是你⾃⼰发展⽔平
和学习的完美反映。

that's what the great athletes have: a winning attitude that allows them to
easily move beyond their mistakes and keep going. others get bogged down
in negative self-criticism, regret, and self-pity. not many people ever
develop a positive winning attitude. the curious anomaly of trading is that,
if you start with a winning trade, you will automatically experience the kind
of carefree mind-set that is a by-product of a winning attitude, without
having developed the attitude itself. i know this may sound a bit confusing,
but it has some profound implications.
优秀的运动员拥有赢家的态度，让他们踩着错误轻松前进。其他⼈因
为⾃责、后悔和⾃怜的消极⼼理⽽陷⼊困境。⼤多数⼈⽆法形成赢家
的态度。交易的反常现象是，如果你⼀开始就有赢家的态度，你会⾃
动地变成了⽆忧⽆虑的思想状态，这是赢家态度的副产品。我知道这
听起来有点头昏，但有深刻的含义。
if a few winning trades can cause you to enter into the kind of carefree state
of mind that is an essential component to your success, but is not founded
on the appropriate attitudes, then what you have is a prescription for
extreme misunderstanding about the nature of trading that inevitably results
in both emotional and financial disaster.
如果⼏次赚钱的交易让你变得⽆忧⽆虑并对你的交易很关键，但这不
是合适的态度，你的问题是对交易的本质有误解。交易最终会导致情
绪和⾦钱灾难。
putting on a few (or more) winning trades does not mean you have become
a trader, but that's the way it feels, because it taps us into a state of mind
that only the most accomplished people experience on a consistent basis.
the fact is, you don't need the slightest bit of skill to put on a winning trade,
and if it's possible to put on one winning trade without the slightest bit of
skill, it is certainly possible to put on another and another. i know of several
people who started their trading careers with fairly substantial strings of
winning trades.

⼏次或更多的交易赚钱不代表你就是交易者了，但感觉确实如此，因
为它让我们进⼊到只有持续⼀致的最有成就的⼈才能体会的思想状
态。事实上，你不需要任何技术都能交易赚钱，如果你不需要任何技
术都能交易赚钱，那么你肯定可以不停地交易。我知道⼀些⼈，他们
⼀开始的交易都在赚钱。
when you're feeling confident and unencumbered by fears and worries, it
isn't difficult to put on a string of winning trades because it's easy to get into
a flow, a kind of natural rhythm, where what you need to do seems obvious
or self-evident. it's almost as if the market screams at you when to buy and
when to sell, and you need very little in the way of analytical sophistication.
and, of course, because you have no fear, you can execute your trades with
no internal argument or conflict.
当你感觉⾃信，不受害怕和担忧困扰时，你可以连续交易赚钱，因为
你很轻松地进⼊到⼀种节奏，你的⾏动显得明显或⾃信。当你买卖
时，似乎市场在提⽰你，你不需要什么分析。当然了，因为你不害
怕，你在交易时没有争论或冲突。
the point i am making is that winning in any endeavor is mostly a function
of attitude. many people are certainly aware of this, but at the same time,
most people don't understand the significant part attitude plays in their
results. in most sports or other competitive activities, participants must
develop physical skills as well as mental skills in the form of strategies. if
opponents are not evenly matched in the skills department, the one with
superior skills usually (but not always) wins. when an underdog beats a
superior opponent, what's the determining factor? when two opponents are
evenly matched, what's the factor that tips the balance one way or the other?
in both cases, the answer is attitude.
我想说的是，任何事业都需要态度取胜。很多⼈都明⽩，但同时，很
多⼈不明⽩态度对结果的重要性。在⼤部分体育⽐赛或有竞争的活动
中，参赛者必须⾸先同步发展⾝体技术和思想技术。如果对⼿在技术
上没有优势，那么有更好技术的⼈通常（但不是永远）会赢。如果输

家打败了超级对⼿，那是什么因素决定的呢？如果两个对⼿旗⿎相
当，那么什么因素会打破这种平衡呢？在两种情况下，答案都是态
度。
what makes trading so fascinating and, at the same time, difficult to learn is
that you really don't need lots of skills; you just need a genuine winning
attitude. experiencing a few or more winning trades can make you feel like
a winner, and that feeling is what sustains the winning streak. this is why it
is possible for a novice trader to put on a string of winning trades, when
many of the industry's best market analysts would give their right arms for a
string of winning trades. the analysts have the skills, but they don't have the
winning attitude. they're operating out of fear. the novice trader experiences
the feeling of a winning attitude because he's not afraid. but that doesn't
mean he has a winning attitude; it only means he hasn't experienced any
pain from his trading activities to make him afraid.
交易既有趣⼜有困难的原因是你并不需要很多技术，你需要天才式的
赢家态度。⼏次或更多的赚钱交易会让你感觉像交易者，这种感觉能
维持赚钱的特征。这就是为什么新⼿要连续多次交易赚钱，市场中的
优秀分析师希望连续多次交易赚钱。分析师有技术，但他们没有赢家
的态度。他们操作时有恐惧。新⼿因为不害怕，所以体会了赢家的态
度。但这不代表他有赢家的态度，这仅仅意味着他还没有体验让他害
怕的任何痛苦。
reacting to loss
对亏损的反应
eventually, our novice trader will experience a loss and being wrong,
regardless of how positive he's feeling. losing and being wrong are
inevitable realities of trading. the most positive attitude imaginable coupled
with the best analytical skills can't prevent a trader from eventually
experiencing a losing trade. the markets are just too erratic and there are too
many variables to consider for any trader to be right every time.

不管我们的新⼿如何有积极的感觉，最终他要犯错亏损。交易中的犯
错和亏损是⽆法避免的现实。最积极的态度和最好的分析技术⽤在⼀
起都不能阻⽌交易者最终会体验亏损。市场反复⽆常，变数太多，交
易者⽆法做到在任何时刻⾯⾯俱到。
what happens when the novice trader finally does lose? what effect will it
have on his carefree state of mind? the answers will depend on his
expectations going into the trade and how he interprets the experience. and
how he interprets the experience is a function of his beliefs and attitudes.
当新⼿最终亏损了，会怎么样？对他的⽆忧⽆虑的思想有什么影响？
答案取决于他的期望和他如何理解他的体验。他如何理解他的体验就
是信念和态度的功能了。
what if he is operating out of a belief that there's no possible way to avoid a
loss, because losing is a natural consequence of trading - no different from,
let's say, a restaurant owner incurring the expense of having to buy food?
furthermore, suppose that he has completely accepted the risk, meaning that
he has considered and accounted for all of what would otherwise be the
unacceptable possibilities in the market's behavior, both financially and
emotionally. with these beliefs and expectations, it is unlikely that he would
experience a deterioration of his attitude, and would simply go on to the
next trade. by the way, this is an example of an ideal set of trading beliefs
and attitudes.
如果他在交易时相信⽆法避免亏损，因为亏损是交易的⾃然结果 -- 就
像餐馆的⽼板也要花钱吃饭⼀样，那会如何？另外，假如他完全接受
⻛险，意味着他完全考虑了市场⾏为的可能，既是⾦钱上的，也是情
绪上的。有了这些信念和期望，这样他的态度就不会变差，他就可以
简单地进⾏下⼀笔交易。顺便说⼀下，这是理想的交易信念和态度的
案例。
now suppose that he hasn't completely accepted the risk. what if his
expectations didn't take into account any market behavior other than what

he wanted? from this mental perspective, if the market doesn't do what he
wants, he is going to feel pain - emotional pain. expectations are our mental
representations of how some future moment in the environment is going to
look, sound, feel, smell, or taste. depending upon how much energy is
behind the expectation, it can hurt a lot when it isn't fulfilled.
假如他没有完全接受⻛险。如果他没有完全考虑市场⾏为，只是满怀
期望，会如何？从思想的⾓度来说，如果市场和他想的不同，他会感
到痛苦 -- 精神痛苦。期望代表了我们对未来的看法、听觉、感觉、嗅
觉或味觉的思想状态。根据他期望背后的能量⼤⼩，如果能量很⼤，
当期望没有实现时就会严重受伤。
of the two different perspectives i just described, which one is likely to be
held by our novice trader? the latter, of course. only the very best traders
have acquired the perspective described in the first scenario. and, as i
indicated in chapter 1, unless these very best traders grew up in successful
trading families or had super traders for mentors (where appropriate
attitudes about risk and loss were instilled in them from the very beginning
of their careers), virtually every one of them had the common experience of
losing one or more fortunes before they realized how they needed to think
in order to be consistently successful.
关于前⾯两种不同的观点，新⼿⼀般会采⽤哪种？当然是后者。只有
最优秀的交易者才会实现第⼀种认知。我在第 01 章讲过，除⾮最优秀
的交易者成⻓在成功的交易家庭或有⼀个超级导师（这样就会在交易
⽣涯的初期就灌输给他们正确的⻛险和亏损态度），在每个⼈认识到
如何形成持续⼀致性成功的思想之前，他们都会体验⼀次或多次财富
损失。
it's a fundamental shift in attitude that accounts for their success, not some
brilliant realization about the market, as most people erroneously assume.
this erroneous assumption is prevalent among traders simply because very
few of them really understand, at the deepest levels, just how critical a
component attitude is in determining one's success.

⼤部分⼈错误地以为对市场的重⼤认知改变是成功的关键，实际是态
度的基本转变才是成功的关键。⼤部分交易者都理解错了是因为只有
少数⼈才能更深地体会到态度对成功是多么的关键。
we can safely assume that after a loss, our novice trader will be in a state of
emotional pain. as a result, his trading will take on a whole new quality.
he'll definitely lose that carefree state of mind, but more important, he will
feel that the market did this to him: the market caused him to feel the pain
he is experiencing; the market took away his winning feeling by subjecting
him to a loss.
我们可以想象，天真的交易者在亏损后精神痛苦。结果就是他的交易
质量提⾼到新的⽔平。他绝对会失去⽆忧⽆虑的思想，但重要的是，
他会以为是市场在害他：市场导致了他的痛苦，市场通过制造亏损剥
夺了他赢家的感觉。
notice how our trader is blaming the markets for losing or what he didn't
get. notice, too, how natural it is to feel the way he does. think about how
many times in our lives, especially as children, we were doing something
we really enjoyed, like playing with a toy or with our friends, and someone
with more power and authority forced us to stop what we were doing and
do something we didn't want to do. all of us have lost things, had things
taken away from us, been denied things we wanted or believed we
deserved, been prevented from continuing an activity we were in the middle
of, or been blocked from pursuing an idea we were passionate about.
请注意交易者是如何责怪市场的。同时请注意有这种感觉是多么⾃
然。想想我们在⼩时候，当我们在尽情地玩玩具时，或和朋友玩耍
时，⼀些⼤⼈迫使我们停⽌，去做我们不喜欢的事，这样的事发⽣了
多少次。我们都曾经失去过⼀些东⻄，有些东⻄被别⼈拿了，我们想
要或以为⾃⼰能得到的东⻄被拒绝了，活动被中⽌，激情追逐的思想
被禁⽌了。

the point is that in many of these situations, we did not need to take
personal responsibility for what happened to us or for the pain we
experienced, because we were powerless to do anything about it. we didn't
choose to be forced out of a state of joy and happiness, into a state of
emotional pain. the decision was out of our hands, against our will, and
usually quite abrupt. even though we may have been told we were
responsible for what was happening to us, we may not have believed it or
understood what it meant.
在这些情况下，重要的是我们不必为发⽣在我们⾝上的事或体验的痛
苦⾃⼰承担责任，因为我们没有能⼒做任何事。我们⾃⼰不能把快乐
和幸福转化成精神痛苦。这些违背我们意愿的决定都不是我们能决定
的，通常都来的突然。即使有⼈告诉我们要对发⽣的事⾃⼰承担责
任，我们也不知道到底什么意思。
what's tangible, and what we can most easily relate to, is that we were
having fun, and someone or something took us out of that fun and into pain.
it wasn't our choice. the cause of our pain came to us from the outside;
therefore, whatever force acted upon us in that moment was to blame. we
learned not only that feeling good can instantly be replaced with feeling bad
through no fault of our own; we also learned about betrayal. we felt
betrayed because many of these situations were completely unexpected or
unanticipated, meaning, we were unprepared for how some people in our
lives had the potential to behave. if their behavior caused us to flip into a
state of emotional pain, then we quite naturally would have felt betrayed.
更真实的体会就是，当我们玩的开⼼时，有⼈或事把我们从开⼼变成
了痛苦。这不是我们的决定。我们痛苦的原因来⾃外部，因此，不管
当时迫使我们的是什么⼒量，都应该收到谴责。我们知道了不但在⾃
⼰不犯错的前提下快乐的感觉能瞬间被糟糕的感觉替代，⽽且我们还
知道了背叛。我们感受到背叛是因为很多时候都发⽣在毫⽆准备的情
况下，这意味着我们不知道我们⽣活中的哪些⼈会有可能这么做。如
果他们的⾏为导致我们精神痛苦，我们就⾃然地感受到背叛。

as a side note, i feel it is important to say that many of our past, emotionally
painful experiences were the result of well-meaning parents, teachers and
friends, many of whom were only doing what they believed at the time was
best for us. the best example is a child playing with a toy that is inherently
dangerous. take the toy away, and the child will cry to express the
emotional pain he is experiencing, and, if we are dealing with a very young
or immature child, in all likelihood he will not listen to anything reasonable
that we say about why he cannot play with that toy.
特别重要说明⼀下，我们很多⼈在⼩时候，很多好⼼的⽗⺟、⽼师和
朋友他们当时⽤以为对我们最好的⽅式给我们造成了精神上的痛苦。
最好的例⼦就是⼩孩玩危险的玩具。如果把玩具拿⾛，⼩孩通过哭来
表达精神上的痛苦，如果我们⾯对的⼩孩很⼩或不成熟，那么他们是
不理解我们拿⾛他玩具的具体原因的。
but, at the same time, many people are born to immature and unreasonable
parents, or encounter emotionally disturbed teachers, coaches, and
employees who subconsciously or intentionally inflict their personal
problems on anyone they perceive as having less power. what's even worse
is many of the people who have a tendency toward victimizing others are
also clever enough to do it in a way that makes their victims believe they
caused their own pain. in any case, whether our painful experiences are the
result of an act of love or intentionally inflicted is something each of us will
have to determine for ourselves.
但是，很多⼩孩出⽣时⽗⺟就不成熟不讲道理，或者遇到了情绪不稳
定的⽼师、教练和员⼯，他们下意识地或有意地把⾃⼰的问题强加给
看起来薄弱的⼈。更严重的是，⼀些⼈很聪明，⼜爱欺负别⼈，还让
受害者以为是⾃⼰的原因。不管是哪种情况，不管我们的痛苦来⾃爱
或来⾃有意强加的，我们都要为⾃⼰做决定。
the bottom line is that, as adults when we get into a trading mode, we don't
realize how natural it is to associate the instantaneous shift from joy to pain
that we experienced so often as children with the same instantaneous shift
from joy to pain that occurs when we trade. the implications are that if we

haven't learned to accept the inherent risks of trading and don't know how
to guard against making these natural connections between our past and the
present, we will end up blaming the market for our results instead of taking
responsibility for them.
总结⼀下，作为成⼈，当我们交易时，我们不知道⾃然地把瞬间从欢
乐到痛苦和⼩时候的体验联系起来。含义就是说如果我们不知道接受
交易中天⽣的⻛险，也不知道驾驭我们的过去和现在的⾃然联系，我
们就只会责怪市场，⽽不是⾃⼰承担责任。
even though most people who trade consider themselves responsible adults,
only the very best traders have reached a point where they can and do
accept complete responsibility for the outcome of any particular trade.
everyone else to one degree or another assumes they are taking
responsibility; but the reality is that they want the market to do it for them.
the typical trader wants the market to fulfill his expectations, his hopes, and
dreams.
即使很多交易者认为⾃⼰是负责任的成⼈，但只有最优秀的交易者才
能完全为每笔交易结果承担责任。其他⼈在某种程度上认为他们负责
任，但是实际上他们希望市场负责任。典型的交易者希望市场满⾜他
的期望、希望和梦想。
society may work this way but the markets certainly don't. in society, we
can expect other people to behave in reasonable and responsible ways.
when they don't, and if we suffer as a result, society makes remedies
available to rectify the imbalance and make us whole again. the market, on
the other hand, has no responsibility to give us anything or do anything that
would benefit us. this may not be the way markets are advertised and
certainly not the impression they want to project, but the reality is, every
trader who participates in the markets does so for his own benefit. the only
way one trader can benefit is if some other trader loses, whether the loss is
in actual dollars as in a futures trade, or lost opportunity as in a stock trade.

社会可以帮助你，但市场肯定不会。在社会中，我们可以期望别⼈⾏
为规矩有理。如果他们不这么做，我们受害了，社会会拯救我们，打
破不平衡，让我们恢复正常。然⽽市场没有任何责任，也不会做任何
事来为我们着想。这好像和宣传的不⼀样啊，这当然不是他们宣传的
重点，但现实是，每个交易者都是为⾃⼰着想的。交易者赚钱的唯⼀
办法就是其他⼈亏钱，不管是期货还是股票。
when you put on a trade, it is in anticipation of making money. every other
trader in the world who puts on a trade does so for the same reason. when
you look at your relationship with the market from this perspective, you
could say that your purpose is to extract money from the markets, but, by
the same token, the market's sole purpose is to extract money or opportunity
from you.
当你交易时，你期待赚钱。这个世界上其它的交易者也这么想。当你
从你和市场的关系来思考，你会说你的⽬标就是从市场赚钱，但同
理，市场的唯⼀⽬标就是赚你的钱。
if the market is a group of people interacting to extract money from one
another, then what is the market's responsibility to the individual trader? it
has no responsibility other than to follow the rules it has established to
facilitate this activity. the point is, if you have ever found yourself blaming
the market or feeling betrayed, then you have not given enough
consideration to the implications of what it means to play a zero-sum game.
any degree of blaming means you have not accepted the reality that the
market owes you nothing, regardless of what you want or think or how
much effort you put into your trading.
如果市场就是⼀群⼈互相赚对⽅的钱，那么市场对个⼈交易者的责任
是什么？市场没有责任，它只是按照当初建⽴时的原则办事。重点
是，如果你发现⾃⼰在责怪市场，或感受到背叛，那么你对零和游戏
的思考还不够认真。任何责怪都说明你没有接受市场不⽋你的现实，
不管你怎么想，怎么努⼒，市场都不⽋你的。

in the market, typical social values of exchange do not come into play. if
you don't understand this and find a way to reconcile the differences
between the social norms you grew up with and the way the market works,
you will continue to project your hopes, dreams, and desires onto the
market believing it's going to do something for you. when it doesn't, you'll
feel angry, frustrated, emotionally distraught, and betrayed.
在市场中，典型的价值认同者不会进来玩。如果你不理解，想协调社
会正常⼈和市场的区别，你会继续希望、梦想、期待市场帮你做点什
么。如果市场没帮你，你感到愤怒、受挫、情绪错乱、背叛。
taking responsibility means acknowledging and accepting, at the deepest
part of your identity, that you - not the market - are completely responsible
for your success or failure as a trader. granted, the market's purpose is to
separate you from your money; but in the process of doing so, it also
provides you with an endless stream of opportunities for you to take money
from it. when prices move, that movement represents the collective actions
of everyone participating at that moment. the market also generates
information about itself, and makes it extremely easy to enter and exit
trades (depending, of course, on the number of people participating).
⾃⼰承担责任意味着从内⼼深处确认并接受是你 -- 不是市场 -- 完全对你
的成功或失败负责。显然，市场的⽬的是把你和你的钱分开，但是在
这个过程中，市场也提供了⽆限的让你赚钱的机会。当价格波动时，
波动代表了此时所有参与者的⾏动总和。市场⾃⼰会产⽣信息，导致
可以很容易地进场或出场交易（当然要取决于参与的⼈数）。
from the individuals perspective, price movement, information, and the
ability to enter and exit trades represent opportunities to see something and
to act on what you perceive. during each moment the markets are open, you
have an opportunity to enter a position, lighten up a position, add to a
position, or exit a position. these are all opportunities to enrich yourself by
taking profits or, at least, cutting your losses.

从个⼈的⾓度来看，价格的波动、信息、进出交易代表了可以看到⼀
些机会并利⽤⾃⼰的认知去⾏动。在市场的任何开盘时间，你有机会
建仓、调整仓位、加仓或平仓。通过兑现利润或⽌损，这些都是你致
富的机会。
let me pose a question. do you feel responsible for fulfilling some other
traders expectations, hopes, dreams, and desires? of course you don't. it
sounds absurd to even ask. however, if you ever find yourself blaming the
market and feeling betrayed, that is essentially what you are doing. you are
expecting the collective actions of everyone participating in the market to
make the market act in a way that gives you what you want. you have to
learn for yourself how to get what you want out of the markets. the first
major step in this learning process is taking complete and absolute
responsibility.
让我提个问题。你觉得要为其它交易者的期望、希望、梦想和欲望负
责吗？肯定你不会。这么问有点荒唐。然⽽，如果你发现⾃⼰责怪市
场，感觉到背叛，那说明你以为别⼈要对你负责。你期望市场参与者
综合⾏为的结果能给你你想要的东⻄。你必须⾃⼰学习如何从市场中
得到你想要的。在这个学习过程中完全绝对地⾃⼰承担责任是第⼀个
关键的步骤。
taking responsibility means believing that all of your outcomes are self-
generated; that your results are based on your interpretations of market
information, the decisions you make and the actions you take as a result.
taking anything less than complete responsibility sets up two major
psychological obstacles that will block your success. first, you will establish
an adversarial relationship with the market that takes you out of the
constant flow of opportunities. second, you will mislead yourself into
believing that your trading problems and lack of success can be rectified
through market analysis.
承担责任意味着确信所有的结果都是⾃⼰造成的，你的结果取决于你
对市场的认知，你要接受你做的决定和⾏动结果。如果不完全地承担

责任，会导致两个主要⼼理障碍⽽不能成功。第⼀，你和市场建⽴了
敌对关系，错失持续⼀致性的机会。第⼆，你错误地以为市场分析可
以解决交易问题和失败。
let's consider the first obstacle. when you project any degree of
responsibility onto the market for giving you money or cutting your losses,
the market can all too easily take on the quality of an adversary or enemy.
losing (when you expected the market to do something different from what
it did) will tap you into the same childlike feelings of pain, anger,
resentment, and powerlessness that all of us felt when someone took
something away from us, didn't give us what we wanted, or wouldn't let us
do what we wanted.
让我们想想第⼀个障碍。当你期待市场为你赚钱或帮你⽌损时，市场
可以轻松地利⽤你的对⼿或敌⼈的优势。就像我们⼩时候，别⼈拿⾛
了我们的东⻄，不理会我们的需求或不让我们做我们想做的事⼀样，
亏损（你本希望市场做点其它事）会让你再次品尝童年时的痛苦、愤
怒、憎恨和⽆能⽆⼒。
no one likes to feel denied, especially if we believe that getting what we
want will make us happy. in each of these situations, something or someone
outside of us prevented us from expressing ourselves in some particular
way. in other words, some outside force was acting against the inner force
of our desires and expectations.
没有⼈喜欢被拒绝，尤其当我们认为得到我们想要的东⻄会让我们感
到快乐时。在这些情况下，⼀些外部的⼈和事阻⽌我们⽤特殊的⽅式
表达⾃⼰。换句话说，⼀些外部⼒量和我们内部的欲望和期望⼒量是
针锋相对的。
as a result, it feels natural to assign the market the power of an outside force
that either gives or takes away. but consider the fact that the market presents
its information from a neutral perspective. that means the market doesn't
know what you want or expect, nor does it care, unless, of course, you trade
the kind of position that can have a major impact on prices. otherwise, each

moment, each bid, and each offer gives you the opportunity to do
something. you can put on a trade, take profits, or take off a loser. this is
also true for those of you who are floor traders and are personally known to
other floor traders, who may also know your position and, to your
detriment, purposely take advantage of that knowledge. it just means that
you have to be faster and more focused, or take whatever limitations you
have in these areas into consideration and trade accordingly.
结果就是，赋予市场外部⼒量是很⾃然的，这个⼒量要么给，要么
拿。但记住事实是，市场给出的信息是中性的。这意味着市场不知道
你的需要和期望，它也不关⼼你，除⾮你的仓位正好要有⼤⾏情。另
外，在每个时刻，每个买⼊报价和卖出报价都给了你⼀些机会。你可
以交易，兑现利润或亏损。对于场内交易者来说，他们能知道你的仓
位，会就此采取对你不利的⾏动。这意味着在交易时，你必须考虑这
些因素，动作快、关注或限制⾃⼰，以做到对应的交易。
from the market's perspective, each moment is neutral; to you, the observer,
every moment and price change can have meaning. but where do these
meaning exist? the meanings are based on what you've learned, and exist
inside your mind, not in the market. the market doesn't attach meanings or
interpret the information it generates about itself (although there are always
individuals who will offer an interpretation if you're willing to listen).
furthermore, the market doesn't know how you define an opportunity or a
loss. the market doesn't know whether you perceive it as an endless stream
of opportunities to enter and exit trades for both profits and losses at each
and every moment, or whether you perceive it as a greedy monster ready
and willing in any given moment to devour your money.
从市场的⾓度来说，每个时刻都是中性的。你作为观察者，每个时
刻，每个价格波动都有意义。但到底有什么意义？这些意义取决于你
的认知，在你的思想中，不在市场中。市场⾃⼰没有意义，也不解释
⾃⼰产⽣的信息（如果你愿意相信，总是有⼈给你⼀个解释的）。另
外，市场也不知道你是如何定义机会或亏损的。不管你是把市场看作

时刻有赚钱或亏损机会的⽆限的河流，还是把市场看作随时会吞掉你
的资⾦的贪婪的怪兽，市场⾃⼰并不知道。
if you perceive the endless stream of opportunities to enter and exit trades
without self-criticism and regret, then you will be in the best frame of mind
to act in your own best interest and learn from your experiences. on the
other hand, if what you perceive in market information is painful in some
way, then you will naturally try to avoid that pain by either consciously or
subconsciously blocking that information from your awareness. in the
process of blocking that information, you'll systematically cut yourself off
from any number of opportunities to enrich yourself. in other words, you
cut yourself off from the opportunity flow.
如果你把市场看作有⽆限交易机会的河流，你⾃⼰也不会⾃责后悔，
那么你的思想状态最适合⾃⼰⾏动，⾃⼰体验学习。另⼀⽅⾯，如果
你对市场信息的解读是痛苦的，你可以通过有意识或下意识地阻⽌信
息以避免痛苦。在阻⽌信息的过程中，你会机械地丧失了⼀些致富的
机会。换句话说，你⾃⼰离开了这条机会河流。
furthermore, it will feel like the market is against you but only if you expect
it to do something for you, or if you believe that it owes you something. if
someone or something is against you and causes you pain, how are you
likely to respond? you'll feel compelled to fight, but what exactly are you
fighting? the market is certainly not fighting you. yes, the market wants
your money, but it also provides you with the opportunity to take as much
as you can. although it may feel as if you are fighting the market, or it is
fighting you, the reality is you are simply fighting the negative
consequences of not fully accepting that the market owes you nothing; and
that you need to take advantage of the opportunities it presents by yourself,
100 percent and not one degree less.
另外，如果你仅仅希望市场为你做点什么或者你相信市场是⽋你的，
那么市场感觉是在和你作对。如果⼀些⼈或事和你作对，导致你痛
苦，你会如何回应？你想和它⽃，但你具体是在和谁⽃？市场肯定没
和你⽃。没错，市场想要你的钱，但它同样给你提供了⽆限赚钱的机

会。虽然感觉上你在和市场⽃，或者市场和你⽃，但事实是你在和不
承认市场根本不⽋你的消极效果⽃。你必须 100% 充分利⽤市场提供给
你的机会。
the way to take maximum advantage of a situation where you are being
offered unlimited opportunities to do something for yourself is to get into
the flow. the market does have a flow. it is often erratic, especially in the
shorter time frames, but it does display symmetrical patterns that repeat
themselves over and over again. obviously, it's a contradiction to flow with
something you are against. if you want to start sensing the flow of the
market, your mind has to be relatively free of fear, anger, regret, betrayal,
despair, and disappointment. you won't have a reason to experience these
negative emotions when you assume absolute responsibility.
当市场给你提供了⽆限的机会时，你要跳进去抓住最⼤的优势。市场
确实有流动。它经常反复⽆常，尤其是短期时间内更明显，但它也会
⼀次⼜⼀次地出现对称模式。很明显，跟踪和你作对的东⻄是⽭盾
的。如果你开始感觉市场的流动，你的思想就不再害怕、愤怒、后
悔、背叛、绝望和失望。如果你是绝对地⾃⼰承担责任，你不必体验
这些消极的情绪。
earlier, i said that when you don't take responsibility, one of the major
psychological obstacles that can block your success is that you will mislead
yourself into believing that your trading problems and lack of consistency
can be rectified through market analysis. to illustrate this point, let's go back
to our novice trader who started out with a carefree state of mind until he
experienced his first loss.
我在前⾯说了，当你不负责任时，⼀个主要的阻碍成功的⼼理障碍
是，你以为通过市场分析可以改变交易问题或没有持续⼀致性。为了
说明这个观点，我们可以看看新⼿，他开始交易时⽆忧⽆虑，直到他
第⼀次体验了亏损。

after winning with such ease and effortlessness, the abrupt shift to
emotional pain can be quite shocking - not shocking enough, however, to
quit trading. besides, in his mind the situation wasn't his fault anyway; the
market did it to him. instead of quitting, the great feeling that he
experienced when he was winning will be fresh in his mind, and will inspire
him with a sense of determination to continue trading.
当⽆忧⽆虑地赚钱时，突然产⽣的精神痛苦是让⼈吃惊的 -- 如果还不
算令⼈吃惊的话，甚⾄会让⼈不再交易。在他的思想中他没有犯错，
市场害了他。如果不退出交易，那么他在赚钱时的体验感觉太好了在
他思想⾥还是鲜活的，会⿎励他继续交易。
only now he's going to be smarter about it. he's going to put some effort into
it and learn everything he can about the markets. it's perfectly logical to
think that if he can win not knowing anything, he'll be able to clean up
when he does know something. but there's a big problem here that very few,
if any, traders will have any awareness of until long after the damage is
done. learning about the markets is fine and doesn't cause a problem in
itself. it's the underlying reason for learning about the market that will
ultimately prove to be his undoing.
现在他变得聪明了。他准备努⼒学习市场。如果他在什么都不知道的
情况下都能赚钱，那么他学习以后就能扫清障碍了，这个想法在逻辑
上是完美的。但⼤问题是，少数交易者在亏损以后才意识到这些。学
习市场是好事，本⾝并没有问题。学习市场后⾯的原因最终会向他证
明还是别学。
as i said a moment ago, the sudden shift from joy to pain usually creates
quite a psychological shock. very few people ever learn how to reconcile
these kinds of experiences in a healthy way. techniques are available, but
they aren't widely known. the typical response in most people, especially in
the type of person attracted to trading, is revenge. for traders, the only way
to extract that revenge is to conquer the market, and the only way to
conquer the market is through market knowledge, or so they think. in other
words, the underlying reason for why the novice trader is learning about the

market is to overcome the market, to prove something to it and himself, and
most important, to prevent the market from hurting him again. he is not
learning the market simply as a means to give himself a systematic way of
winning, but rather as a way to either avoid pain or prove something that
has absolutely nothing to do with looking at the market from an objective
perspective. he doesn't realize it, but as soon as he made the assumption that
knowing something about the market can prevent him from experiencing
pain or can help satisfy his desire for revenge or to prove something, he
sealed his fate to become a loser.
正如我前⾯所讲的，突然从欢乐变成痛苦会导致⼼理震惊。只有少数
⼈知道如何健康地处理这个体验。有解决问题的技术，但他们不知
道。⼤多数⼈，尤其是喜欢交易的⼈，他们的典型反应是报仇。对交
易者来说，唯⼀的报仇办法就是征服市场，唯⼀征服市场的办法就是
通过研究市场知识，⾄少他们是这么想的。换句话说，新⼿学习市场
的原因是为了征服市场，以证明⾃⼰，更重要的是不再受伤害。他并
不是⽤系统的取胜⽅法学习市场，不是从客观的⾓度看待市场，⽽是
从避免痛苦或证明⾃⼰的⾓度采取⽅法的。
in effect what he has done is set up an irreconcilable dilemma. he is
learning how to recognize and understand the market's collective behavior
patterns, and that's good. it even feels good. he's inspired because he
assumes he's learning about the market in order to become a winner. as a
result, he will typically go on a knowledge quest, learning about trend lines,
chart patterns, support and resistance, candlesticks, market profiles, point
and line charts, elliott waves, fibonacci retracements, oscillators, relative
strength, stochastics, and many more technical tools too numerous to
mention. curiously, even though his knowledge has increased, he now finds
that he's developed problems executing his trades. he hesitates, second
guesses himself, or doesn't put on a trade at all, in spite of any number of
clear signals to do so. it's all frustrating, even maddening, because what's
happened doesn't make sense. he did what he was supposed to do - he
learned - only to find that the more he learned, the less he took advantage
of. he would never believe that he did anything wrong by devoting himself
to learning; he simply did it for the wrong reasons.

最后他进⼊了⼀个两难境地。他已经学习和明⽩了市场整体⾏为模
式，这是好事。甚⾄感觉很好。他很受⿎舞，因为他觉得⾃⼰了解了
市场，可以成为赢家。结果就是他努⼒追求知识，学习趋势线、图表
模式、⽀撑点、压⼒点、 k 线、市场轮廓、点线图、艾略特波浪理论、
⻩⾦分割线、振荡指标、相对强度指标、随即指标以及其它⽆数的技
术⼯具。有趣的是，即使他的知识增加了，他发现执⾏交易时有问
题。虽然有⼀些明确的信号叫他⾏动，但他变得犹豫、猜测或根本不
交易。令⼈沮丧，甚⾄疯狂的是，过去发⽣的事不能说明什么。他按
照计划做了 -- 学了 -- 结果是发现学的越多，越没有优势。当他学习以
后，他觉得他没有做错任何事，只是他的理由错了。
he won't be able to trade effectively if he is trying to prove something or
anything for that matter. if you have to win, if you have to be right, if you
can't lose or can't be wrong, you will cause yourself to define and perceive
categories of market information as painful. in other words, you will view
as painful any information the market generates that is in opposition to what
will make you happy.
如果他为了证明他没错，他就再也不能有效地交易了。如果你必须
赢，必须正确，如果你不能亏或不能错，你就会发现定义和解读市场
信息是痛苦的。换句话说，你会把市场产⽣的信息看成阻碍你⾼兴的
东⻄。
the dilemma is that our minds are wired to avoid both physical and
emotional pain, and learning about the markets will not compensate for the
negative effects our pain-avoidance mechanisms have on our trading.
everybody understands the nature of avoiding physical pain. accidentally
set your hand on a hot burner, and your hand moves away from the heat
automatically; it's an instinctive reaction. however, when it comes to
avoiding emotional pain and the negative consequences it creates,
especially for traders, very few people understand the dynamics. its
absolutely essential to your development that you understand these negative
effects and learn how to take conscious control in a way that helps you
fulfill your goals.

两难境地就是我们的思想同时要避免⾝体和精神受伤，学习市场并不
能弥补痛苦回避系统对我们造成的消极影响。⽆意中把⼿放在烫炉⼦
上，你的⼿会⾃动快速移开，这是本能反应。然⽽，对于避免精神痛
苦和它的消极效果，尤其是交易者，少数⼈能明⽩这个动⼒。你明⽩
这些消极效果并学习如何让意识控制它们以帮助⾃⼰实现⽬标绝对是
重要的。
our minds have a number of ways to shield us from information that we
have learned to perceive as painful. for example, at a conscious level, we
can rationalize, justify, or make a case for staying in a losing trade. some of
the more typical ways we do this are to call our trading buddies, talk to our
broker, or look at indicators we never use, all for the express purpose of
gathering nonpainful information in order to deny the validity of the painful
information. at a subconscious level, our minds will automatically alter,
distort, or specifically exclude information from our conscious awareness.
in other words, we don't know at a conscious level that our pain-avoidance
mechanisms are either excluding or altering the information being offered
by the market.
我们的⼤脑有⼀些⽅法保护我们不再受痛苦信息的影响。⽐如，在清
醒状态，我们可以为亏损的交易找理由、找借⼝或提出论点。⼀些典
型的⽅法就是打电话给朋友，和经纪⼈商量或观察从来不⽤的指标，
所有这些努⼒的⽬的都是收集不痛苦的信息以对抗痛苦的信息。在下
意识⾥，我们的思想会⾃动地过滤、扭曲或特意排除⼀些信息。换句
话说，在清醒时，我们不知道我们的痛苦回避系统是否在有意地排除
或过滤市场信息。
consider the experience of being in a losing trade when the market is
making consistently higher highs and higher lows or lower highs and lower
lows against your position, while you refuse to acknowledge you are in a
losing trade because you have focused all your attention on the tics that go
in your favor. on the average, you are only getting one out of four or five
tics in your direction; but it doesn't matter because every time you get one,
you are convinced the market has reversed and is coming back. instead the

market keeps going against you. at some point, the dollar value of the loss
becomes so great that it cannot be denied and you finally exit the trade.
想象⼀下，当市场在不断创造新⾼或新低时，你却持有不利的仓位，
同时你拒绝承认你的仓位是亏损的因为你正在全神贯注地盯着对你有
利的⼩跳动。平均说，只有 4 ， 5 个基点是对你有利的，但这不要紧，
因为每次对你有利时，你就确信市场反转了，回来了。实际上市场继
续对你不利。到了某种程度，你亏损的⾦额太⼤了，你不得不承认亏
损，只好出场。
the first reaction that traders universally have when looking back at such a
trade is, "why didn't i just take my loss and reverse?" the opportunity to put
on a trade in the opposite direction was easily recognized once there was
nothing at stake. but we were blinded to this opportunity while we were in
the trade, because at that time the information indicating it was an
opportunity was defined as painful, so we blocked it from our awareness.
当交易者回头再看交易时，通常的反应是： " 为什么我不知道⽌损并反
向交易呢？ " 如果没有亏损的仓位，反向交易的机会是很容易辨识的。
但是当我们持有仓位时，我们被蒙蔽了双眼，因为此时是机会的消息
被定义为痛苦的，所以我们的意识就把它阻⽌了。
when our hypothetical trader first started trading, he was having fun; he was
in a carefree state of mind; he had no personal agendas and nothing to
prove. as long as he was winning, he put his trades on from a "let's see what
will happen" perspective. the more he won, the less he considered the
possibility of ever losing. when he finally did lose, he was probably in a
state of mind where he least expected it. instead of assuming that the cause
of his pain was his erroneous expectation about what the market was
supposed to do or not do, he blamed the market, and resolved that by
gaining market knowledge, he could prevent such experiences from
recurring. in other words, he made a dramatic shift in his perspective from
carefree to preventing pain by avoiding losses.

假定交易者第⼀次开始交易，他觉得有趣，他处于⽆忧⽆虑的状态，
他没有计划，也不⽤证明什么。当他保持赚钱的时候，他交易时采
⽤ " 让我们看看结果如何 " 的观点。当他赚的越多，他越不会考虑亏损
的可能。当他最终亏了，他还在期望。他不认为他的痛苦是不当的期
望造成的，他反⽽责怪市场，他觉得通过获得市场知识，他就可以避
免这样的事再发⽣了。换句话说，他通过把⾃⼰的观点从⽆忧⽆虑改
变为避免亏损以防⽌痛苦。
the problem is that preventing pain by avoiding losses can't be done. the
market generates behavior patterns and the patterns repeat themselves, but
not every time. so again, there is no possible way to avoid losing or being
wrong. our trader won't sense these trading realities, because he is being
driven forward by two compelling forces: (1) he desperately wants that
winning feeling back, and (2) he is extremely enthusiastic about all of the
market knowledge he is acquiring. what he doesn't realize is that, in spite of
his enthusiasm, when he went from a carefree state of mind to a prevent-
and-avoid mode of thinking, he shifted from a positive to a negative
attitude.
问题是通过避免亏损来防⽌痛苦是办不到的。市场会产⽣⾏为模式，
模式也会重复出现，但不是每次都出现。所以再次证明，没有避免亏
损或犯错的可能⽅法。我们的交易者⽆法体会这个交易现实，因为他
被两种⼒量驱使：（ 1 ）他强烈要求再次获得赢家的感觉，（ 2 ）他超
级痴迷于研究所有的市场知识。他不知道的是，不说他的激情，他从
⽆忧⽆虑转换到防⽌并避免的思想，等于态度上从积极思考转到了消
极思考。
he's no longer focused on just winning, but rather on how he can avoid pain
by preventing the market from hurting him again. this kind of negative
perspective isn't any different from the tennis player or golfer who is
focused on trying not to make a mistake, the more he tries not to make a
mistake, the more mistakes he makes. however, this mode of thinking is
much easier to recognize in sports because there's a more discernable
connection between one's focus and one's results. with trading, the

connection can be obscured and more difficult to recognize as a result of the
positive feelings being generated from discovering new relationships in
market data and behavior.
他不再关注于赚钱，⽽是关注于如何防⽌市场再次伤害他以避免痛
苦。这种消极的观点和打⽹球或打⾼尔夫的⼈⼀样，他们关注于尽量
不犯错，他们越是努⼒，越是犯错越多。然⽽，这种思想模式在体育
中很容易辨识，因为⼀个⼈的关注和结果之间的联系很容易认出。在
交易中，当新发现了市场数据和⾏为之间的关系时，这种积极的感觉
是模糊的，不容易辨识的。
since he is feeling good, there's no reason to suspect that anything is wrong,
except that the degree to which his focus is weighted toward pain-avoidance
is the same degree by which he will create the very experiences he is trying
to avoid. in other words, the more he has to win and not lose, the less
tolerance he will have for any information that might indicate he is not
getting what he wants. the more information that he has the potential to
block, the less he will be able to perceive an opportunity to act in his own
best interests.
因为他感觉很好，没有理由怀疑什么是错的，除⾮⽤避免痛苦来衡量
的关注程度和他尽量避免的体验是⼀样的程度。换句话说，他越是想
赢，不想亏，他们对可能对他有利的信息的忍受能⼒越差。他有能⼒
阻⽌的信息越多，他能看⻅的对他有利的机会越少。
learning more and more about the markets only to avoid pain will
compound his problems because the more he learns, the more he will
naturally expect from the markets, making it all the more painful when the
markets don't do their part. he has unwittingly created a vicious cycle where
the more he learns, the more debilitated he becomes; the more debilitated he
becomes, the more he feel compelled to learn. the cycle will continue until
he either quits trading in disgust or recognizes that the root cause of his
trading problems is his perspective, not his lack of market knowledge.

为了避免痛苦⽽学习越来越多的市场会形成复杂的问题，因为他学的
越多，他对市场的期望越多，如果市场不这么做，他就更痛苦。他不
知不觉地制造了⼀个危险的循环，他学的越多，他变得越疲惫不堪；
他越是疲惫不堪，越感觉要学。当他因为厌恶⽽退出交易时，或者是
他认识到他交易问题的根源是他的观点，不是缺少市场知识时，这个
循环才会停⽌。
winners, losers, boomers, and busters
赢家，输家，暴发户和亏损者
it takes some time before most traders either throw in the towel or find out
the true source of their success. in the meantime, some traders manage to
get enough right about trading to enter into what is commonly referred to as
the "boom and bust cycle."
⼤部分交易者需要花很多时间才认输或找到成功的真正⽅法。同时，
⼀些交易者尽⼒得到更多的时间以加⼊所谓的 " 暴发与亏损的循环 " 。
contrary to what some of you may have inferred from the example of the
novice trader, not everyone has an inherently negative attitude and is
therefore doomed to lose consistently. yes, it is true that some traders do
consistently lose, often until they lose everything or quit trading because
they can't tolerate any more emotional pain. however, there are also many
traders who are tenacious students of the market and have a sufficiently
winning attitude going into trading so that, in spite of the many difficulties,
they eventually learn how to make money. but, and i want to emphasize
this, they learn how to make money only on a limited basis; they haven't yet
learned how to counteract the negative effects of euphoria or how to
compensate for the potential for self-sabotage.
和举例⼦的新⼿相反，并不是每个⼈都有天⽣的消极态度⽽注定⽆法
实现持续⼀致性。没错，这是事实，⼀些交易者会持续亏损，他们经
常亏光了或退出交易，因为他们⽆法忍受精神上的痛苦。然⽽，也有

很多交易者是市场坚强的学⽣，他们有有效的赢家态度，所以不管有
多少苦难，他们最终都能学会赚钱。但是，我想强调，他们在有限的
基础上学习如何赚钱，他们还没有学会如何应对过度兴奋的消极影响
或如何弥补⾃毁倾向。
euphoria and self-sabotage are two powerful psychological forces that will
have an extremely negative effect on your bottom line. but, they are not
forces you have to concern yourself with until you start winning, or start
winning on a consistent basis, and that's a big problem. when you're
winning, you are least likely to concern yourself with anything that might
be a potential problem, especially something that feels as good as euphoria.
one of the primary characteristics of euphoria is that it creates a sense of
supreme confidence where the possibility of anything going wrong is
virtually inconceivable. conversely, errors that result from self-sabotage
have their root in any number of conflicts that traders have about deserving
the money or deserving to win.
过度兴奋和⾃毁是两种有⼒的⼼理⼒量，对你有极⼤的消极影响。但
是，只有你开始赚钱或持续⼀致性地赚钱时，这两种⼒量才出现，这
是⼤问题。当你赚钱的时候，你很少去想可能的问题，尤其是过度兴
奋这样的事还感觉不错。过度兴奋的⼀个原始特点就是它制造了超级
⾃信，任何犯错的可能都变得不可思议。相反，⾃毁来⾃于交易者认
为应该赚钱或应该赢的很多冲突中。
it's when you're winning that you are most susceptible to making a mistake,
overtrading, putting on too large a position, violating your rules, or
generally operating as if no prudent boundaries on your behavior are
necessary. you may even go to the extreme of thinking you are the market.
however, the market rarely agrees, and when it disagrees, you'll get hurt. the
loss and the emotional pain are usually significant. you will experience a
boom, followed by the inevitable bust.
当你赚钱的时候，你更容易受犯错、过度交易、仓位过⼤、违反原则
或像没有任何谨慎的限制必要那样交易的影响。你甚⾄会极端地以为

⾃⼰就是市场。然⽽，市场很少会同意，当它不同意时，你就受伤
了。亏损和精神痛苦⼀般都是严重的。你体验了辉煌，然后就是⽆法
避免的破坏。
if i were to classify traders based on the kind of results they achieve, i
would put them into three broad categories. the smallest group, probably
fewer than 10 percent of the active traders, are the consistent winners. they
have a steadily rising equity curve with relatively minor drawdowns. the
drawdowns they do experience are the type of normal losses that any
trading methodology or system incurs. not only have they learned how to
make money, but they are no longer susceptible to the psychological forces
that cause the boom-and-bust cycle.
如果根据交易者的结果来区分他们，我愿意把他们分为三组。最⼩的
⼀组，恐怕还不到交易者的 10% ，是持续⼀致的赢家。他们的资⾦曲
线稳步上涨，⽽亏损则相对很⼩。他们体验的亏损是正常的亏损，任
何交易⽅法或系统都会产⽣的。他们不但知道如何赚钱，他们永远不
受导致 " 暴发和亏损 " 循环的⼼理⼒量的影响。
the next group, which consists of between 30 and 40 percent of the active
traders, are consistent losers. their equity curves are mirror images of the
consistent winners' curves, but in the opposite direction - many losing
trades with an occasional winner. regardless of how long they have been
trading, there's much about it that they haven't learned. they either have
illusions about the nature of trading or are addicted to it in ways that make
it virtually impossible for them to be winners.
第⼆组⼈占活跃交易者的 30%--40% ，他们是持续的输家。他们的资⾦
曲线就是持续⼀致性赢家资⾦曲线的对照，不过是反的 -- 很多亏损的
交易，偶尔会有赚钱的交易。不管他们交易⽣涯有多久，他们要学的
东⻄太多了。他们要么是对交易的本性有幻想，要么是对⼀种不可能
赚钱的⽅法上瘾了。

the largest group, the remaining 40 to 50 percent of the active traders, are
the "boom and busters." they have learned how to make money, but they
haven't learned there s a whole body of trading skills that have to be
mastered in order to keep the money they make. as a result, their equity
curves typically look like roller-coaster rides, with a nice, steady assent into
a steep dropoff, then another nice, steady assent into another steep dropoff.
the roller-coaster cycle continues on and on.
最⼤的⼀组，剩下来的 40%--50% 的活跃交易者，他们是 " 先暴发后亏
损者 " 。他们学会了如何赚钱，但他们不知道整体交易还包括如何保住
利润。结果他们的资⾦曲线看起来像典型的过⼭⻋，漂亮稳步的上涨
突然变成了陡峭的下跌，然后⼜是⼀个漂亮稳步的上涨突然变成了⼜
⼀个陡峭的下跌。这样的过⼭⻋⼀直在循环。
i have worked with many experienced traders who have put together
incredible winning streaks, sometimes going months without a losing day;
having fifteen or twenty winning trades in a row is not unusual for them.
but for the boom and busters, these streaks always end the same way - in
huge losses that are the result of either euphoria or self-sabotage.
我和很多有经验的交易者沟通过，他们有惊⼈的连续交易，有时候⼀
个⽉都没有⼀天亏损，对他们来说连续 15 或 20 笔赚钱的交易很正常。
但是对于先暴发后亏损者来说，这些连续赚钱的结果也是⼀样 -- 因为
过度兴奋或⾃毁⽽导致巨⼤亏损。
if the losses are the result of euphoria, it really doesn't matter what form the
streak takes - a number of wins in a row, a steadily rising equity curve, or
even one winning trade. everyone seems to have a different threshold for
when overconfidence or euphoria starts to take hold of the thinking process.
however, the moment euphoria takes hold, the trader is in deep trouble.
如果是过分兴奋导致了亏损，那么⼀连串赚钱的形式真的不重要 -- ⼀
连串赚钱，稳定上涨的资⾦曲线，或即使是⼀次赚钱的交易。似乎每

个⼈都不能跨过过度⾃信或过度兴奋这道门槛。⼀旦过度兴奋占上
⻛，交易者的⿇烦就⼤了。
in a state of overconfidence or euphoria, you can't perceive any risk because
euphoria makes you believe that absolutely nothing can go wrong. if
nothing can go wrong, there's no need for rules or boundaries to govern
your behavior. so putting on a larger than usual position is not only
appealing, it's compelling.
在过度⾃信或过度兴奋状态下，因为过度兴奋让你相信绝对不会出
错，所以你不能看⻅⻛险。如果不会出错，那么就没有必要⽤原则或
限制来规范你的⾏为。所以建⽴⼀个超⼤仓位不但有吸引⼒，⽽且还
有趣。
however, as soon as you put on the larger-than-usual position, you're in
danger. the larger the position, the greater the financial impact small
fluctuations in price will have on your equity. combine the larger-than-
normal impact of a move against your position with a resolute belief that
the market will do exactly as you expect, and you have a situation in which
one tic in the opposition direction of your trade can cause you to go into a
state of "mind-freeze" and become immobilized.
然⽽，⼀旦你建⽴了超⼤仓位，你就有危险了。仓位越⼤，价格的波
动对资⾦的冲击也就越⼤。如果你坚信市场如你所愿，同时⼜建⽴了
超⼤仓位，那么当市场往不利的⽅向跳动⼀个基点，就会让你 " 惊
呆 " ，不知所措。
when you finally do pull yourself out of it, you'll be dazed, disillusioned,
and betrayed, and you'll wonder how something like that could have
happened. in fact, you were betrayed by your own emotions. however, if
you're not aware of or don't understand the underlying dynamics i just
described, you'll have no other choice but to blame the market. if you
believe the market did this to you, then you'll feel compelled to learn more
about the market in order to protect yourself. the more you learn, the more
confident you will naturally become in your ability to win. as your

confidence grows, the more likely that at some point you will cross the
threshold into euphoria and start the cycle all over again.
当你最终逃了出来，你会茫然、醒悟、感觉背叛，你会奇怪怎么会发
⽣这样的事。实际上，你被⾃⼰的情绪背叛了。然⽽，如果你没意识
到或不明⽩我刚才说的潜在动⼒，你有其它选择，但不要责怪市场。
如果你认为是市场在陷害你，那么你就会迫使⾃⼰去学习市场以保护
⾃⼰。你学的越多，你越有赢的信⼼。当你的信⼼增⻓时，你有时⼜
会跨过过度兴奋的门槛，这个循环⼜开始了。
losses that result from self-sabotage can be just as damaging, but they're
usually more subtle in nature. making errors like putting in a sell for a buy
or vice versa, or indulging yourself in some distracting activity at the most
inopportune time are typical examples of how traders make sure they don't
win.
⾃毁导致的亏损是有伤害的，但很微妙。犯错就像是卖是为了买，买
是为了卖，或在不恰当的时间沉迷于玩乐，这是典型的交易者知道⾃
⼰不会赢。
why wouldn't someone want to win? it's really not a question of what
someone wants, because i believe that all traders want to win. yet, there are
often conflicts about winning. sometimes these conflicts are so powerful
that we find our behavior is in direct conflict with what we want. these
conflicts could stem from religious upbringing, work ethic or certain types
of childhood trauma.
为什么有⼈不想赢？这不是想要什么的问题，因为我相信所有的交易
者都想赢。然⽽，赢经常是有冲突的。有时候这些冲突太厉害了，我
们发现我们的⾏为和我们想要的直接冲突。这些冲突来⾃宗教信仰、
⼯作伦理或童年时的特定创伤。
if these conflicts exist, it means that your mental environment is not
completely aligned with your goals. in other words, not all parts of you

would argue for the same outcome. therefore, you can't assume that you
have the capacity to give yourself an unlimited amount of money just
because you have learned how to trade and the money is there for the
taking.
如果这些冲突存在，这意味着你的精神状态和你的⽬标不⼀致。换句
话说，并不是所有的你在追求同样的结果。因此，你不能因为你学习
了如何交易，你就以为所有的钱在那⾥等你，你就能得到⽆限的钱。
a futures broker at one of the major brokerage firms once commented that
when it comes to his customers, he lives by the motto that all commodity
traders are terminal, and it is his job to keep them happy until they're gone.
he said this facetiously, but there is a lot of truth to his statement. obviously,
if you lose more money than you make, you can't survive. what's less
obvious, and one of the mysteries of being successful, is that if you win,
you may still be terminal; that is, if you win and you haven't learned how to
create a healthy balance between confidence and restraint, or you haven't
learned how to recognize and compensate for any potential you have to
self-destruct, you will sooner or later lose.
在⼀个⼤经纪公司⼀个期货经纪⼈说，谈到顾客，他以 " 所有的商品交
易者都快完蛋了 " 为座右铭，他的⼯作就是在他们完蛋前让他们快乐。
他是开玩笑说的，但他的话⾥⾯有很多真理。显然，如果你亏的钱⽐
你赚的钱多，你⽆法⽣存。不太明显的是，如果你赢了，你还有可能
完蛋，也就是说，如果你赢了，你没有学到如何在⾃信和⾃控之间找
到健康的平衡，或你还不知道你有⾃毁的可能，也不知道如何⾯对这
个可能，那么你迟早要输。
if you are among those in the boom-and-bust cycle, consider this: if you
could redo every losing trade that was the result of an error or recklessness,
how much money would you have now? based on these recalculated results,
what would your equity curve look like? i'm sure many of you would fall
into the category of consistent winners. now think about how you
responded to your losses when they occurred. did you assume complete
responsibility for them? did you try to identify how you might change your

perspective, attitude, or behavior? or did you look to the market and wonder
what you might learn about it to prevent such a thing from happening
again? obviously, the market has nothing to do with your potential for
recklessness, nor does it have anything to do with the errors you make as a
result of some internal conflict about deserving the money.
如果你在暴发和亏损的循环中，记住：如果你因为犯错或轻率⽽亏损
的交易，现在重新交易，你会有多少钱？根据这个结果重新计算你的
资⾦曲线，现在资⾦曲线会是什么样⼦？我相信很多⼈都能成为持续
⼀致的赢家。现在再想想，如果亏损，你会怎么反应。你会承担所有
责任吗？你会尽量去改变⾃⼰的观点、态度或⾏为吗？你会观察市场
并思考如何防⽌同样的事再次发⽣吗？显然，市场和你的轻率⽆关，
和你内部冲突⽽犯错也⽆关。
probably one of the hardest concepts for traders to effectively assimilate is
that the market doesn't create your attitude or state of mind; it simply acts as
a mirror reflecting what's inside back to you. if you are confident, it's not
because the market is making you feel that way; it is because your beliefs
and attitudes are aligned in a way that allows you to step forward into an
experience, take responsibility for the outcome, and extract the insight that's
been made available. you maintain your confident state of mind simply
because you are constantly learning. conversely, if you're angry and afraid,
it's because you believe to some degree that the market creates your
outcomes, not the other way around.
恐怕交易者最难有效理解消化的概念是，你的态度和思想不是市场创
造的，市场只是反射你的内⼼。如果你⾃信，不是市场让你⾃信的，
是因为你的信念和态度合拍，让你去体验，为结果负责，深⼊理解。
你能保持⾃信状态是因为你⼀直在学习。相反，如果你愤怒，害怕，
因为你相信是市场制造的结果，不是其它原因。
ultimately, the worst consequence of not taking responsibility is that it
keeps you in a cycle of pain and dissatisfaction. think about it for a
moment. if you're not responsible for your results, then you can assume

there's nothing for you to learn, and you can stay exactly as you are. you
won't grow and you won't change. as a result, you will perceive events in
exactly the same way, and therefore respond to them in the same way, and
get the same dissatisfying results.
最终，不承担责任的最坏结果就是你在痛苦和不满中循环。想想吧。
如果你不为⾃⼰的结果负责，那么你可以认为没有什么好学的，你可
以保持原样。你不会成⻓，不会改变。结果就是你看待事物的观点没
变，因此反应也没变，不满的结果也没变。
or, you might also assume the solution to your problems is to gain more
market knowledge. it is always virtuous to learn, but in this case if you don't
take responsibility for your attitudes and perspective, then you're learning
something valuable for wrong … that will cause you to use what you've
learned in inappropriate ways. without realizing it, you'll be using your
knowledge to avoid the responsibility of taking risks. in the process, you
end up creating the very things you are trying to avoid, keeping you in a
cycle of pain and dissatisfaction.
或者，你以为解决问题的⽅式就是获取更多的市场信息。学习总是好
事，但是在本例中，如果你不为⾃⼰的态度和观点负责，那么你是在
为错误的原因⽽学习（张轶注：因英⽂影印件模糊不清，此处意
译），会让你不当地使⽤你学到的东⻄。如果你没意识到这点，你会
⽤知识去避免承担⻛险的责任。在这个过程中，你会制造你⼀直避免
的东⻄，让你在痛苦和不满中循环。
however, there is one tangible benefit to be gained from blaming the market
for what you wanted and didn't get. you can temporarily shield yourself
from your own harsh self-criticism. i say "temporarily" because, when you
shift responsibility, you cut yourself off from whatever you needed to learn
from the experience. remember our definition of a winning attitude: a
positive expectation of your efforts with an acceptance that whatever results
you get are a perfect reflection of your level of development and what you
need to learn to do better.

然⽽，责怪市场没有给你你想要的东⻄，也有实在的好处。你可以暂
时避免严厉的⾃责。我说 " 暂时 " 是因为当你推卸责任时，你拒绝了从
经验中学习的机会。记住我们对赢家态度的定义：对⾃⼰的努⼒有积
极的期望，同时接受不管结果是什么，那都是⾃⼰⽔平的完美反映，
也是为了⾃⼰学的更好。
if you shift the blame in order to block the painful feelings that result from
beating yourself up, all you've done is put an infected band-aid on the
wound. you may think you have solved the problem, but the problem is
only going to resurface later, worse than before. it has to, simply because
you haven't learned anything that would cause you to make the land of
interpretations that would result in a more satisfying experience.
如果你为了避免惩罚⾃⼰的痛苦感觉，你就责怪其它事物，你的做法
相当于⽤感染过的邦迪去贴伤⼝。你也许以为⾃⼰解决了问题，但问
题只是推迟出现，会变得更坏。结果必须是这样，因为你学的东⻄不
够多，你不知道如何解读才能得到更满意的结果。
did you ever wonder why leaving money on the table is often more painful
than taking a loss? when we lose, there are any number of ways in which
we can shift the blame to the market and not accept responsibility. but when
we leave money on the table, we can't blame the market. the market didn't
do anything but give us exactly what we wanted, but for whatever reason,
we weren't capable of acting on the opportunity appropriately. in other
words, there's no way to rationalize the pain away.
你是否奇怪为什么预期没实现⽐亏损还痛苦？当我们亏损时，我们有
很多⽅法来责怪市场，不承担责任。但是当我们进⾏不占优势的交易
时，我们⽆法责怪市场。市场没有给予我们想要的东⻄，但不管原因
是什么，我们不能合适地利⽤机会。换句话说，没有办法为痛苦找理
由。
you are not responsible for what the market does or doesn't do, but you are
responsible for everything else that results from your trading activities. you

are responsible for what you have learned, as well as for everything you
haven't learned yet that's waiting to be discovered by you. the most efficient
path to discovering what you need to be successful is to develop a winning
attitude, because it's an inherently creative perspective. not only does a
winning attitude open you up to what you need to learn; it also produces the
land of mind-set that is most conducive to discovering something no one
else has experienced.
你⽆法为市场做的或没做的事负责，但你要为⾃⼰交易⾏为的任何结
果负责。你要为⾃⼰学到的东⻄负责，还要为你没有学到，但即将学
到的任何东⻄负责。发现成功最有效的⽅法是形成赢家的态度，因为
这是天⽣的创造性观点。不但赢家态度为了展开了你要学的东⻄，⽽
且它会产⽣⼀种思想，这种思想可以发现别⼈没有体验的东⻄。
developing a winning attitude is the key to your success. the problem for
many traders is that either they think they already have one, when they
don't, or they expect the market to develop the attitude for them by giving
them winning trades. you are responsible for developing your own winning
attitude. the market is not going to do it for you, and, i want to be as
emphatic as i can, no amount of market analysis will compensate for
developing a winning attitude if you lack one. understanding the markets
will give you the edge you need to create some winning trades, but your
edge won't make you a consistent winner if you don't have a winning
attitude.
形成赢家态度是成功的关键。很多交易者的问题是，他们要么不知
道，却以为⾃⼰有了赢家态度，要么希望市场帮他们形成赢家态度。
市场是不会为你做的，我想尽量强调，如果你没有赢家态度，那么没
有任何市场分析会弥补你没有赢家态度。市场可以给你⼀些赢利的交
易优势，但如果你没有赢家态度，优势不会让你成为持续⼀致的赢
家。
certainly one could argue that some traders lose because they don't
understand enough about the markets and therefore they usually pick the
wrong trades. as reasonable as this may sound, it has been my experience

that traders with losing attitudes pick the wrong trades regardless of how
much they know about the markets. in any case, the result is the same - they
lose. on the other hand, traders with winning attitudes who know virtually
nothing about the markets can pick winners; and if they know a lot about
the markets, they can pick even more winners.
当然有⼈可以这样争论说，⼀些交易者亏损是因为他们不了解市场，
因此他们选择了错误的交易。这听起来很有道理，但根据我的经验
是，⽆论他们多么了解市场，亏损的态度会选择错误的交易。⽆论在
哪个场合，结果都是⼀样 -- 他们会亏损。另⼀⽅⾯，有赢家态度的交
易者，即使不了解市场，也会选到赚钱的交易，如果他们对市场的了
解更多，他们选到的赚钱的交易也更多。
if you want to change your experience of the markets from fearful to
confident, if you want to change your results from an erratic equity curve to
a steadily rising one, the first step is to embrace the responsibility and stop
expecting the market to give you anything or do anything for you. if you
resolve from this point forward to do it all yourself, the market can no
longer be your opponent. if you stop fighting the market, which in effect
means you stop fighting yourself, you'll be amazed at how quickly you will
recognize exactly what you need to learn, and how quickly you will learn it.
taking responsibility is the cornerstone of a winning attitude.
如果你想把你的市场体验从痛苦变成⾃信，如果你想把你的资⾦曲线
从反复⽆常变成稳步上涨，第⼀步就是承担责任，不要期待市场会给
你什么或做什么。如果你从这点开始努⼒，市场再也不会是你的敌
⼈。如果你停⽌和市场⽃，这意味着不再和市场⽃，你会吃惊地发现
你很快就知道⾃⼰要学什么，你学的是多么快。承担责任是赢家态度
的基⽯。