Chapter 4 consistency: a state of mind

第  04 章  持续⼀致性：⼀种思想状态
i hope that after reading the first three chapters you are getting the idea that
just because you are acting in the capacity of a trader, doesn't mean that
you've learned the appropriate ways to think about what you do. as i have
already stressed several times, what separates the best traders from
everyone else is not what they do or when they do it, but rather how they
think about what they do and how they're thinking when they do it.
我希望当你读了前⾯三章以后，你已经有了这个思想，你在做交易并
不意味着你已经学会了适当的思考⽅法。我已经说了⼏次，把最优秀
的交易者和其他⼈分开的不是他们的⾏为或时机，⽽是他们如何思考
⾏为，如何思考⾏动时机。
if your goal is to trade like a professional and be a consistent winner, then
you must start from the premise that the solutions are in your mind and not
in the market. consistency is a state of mind that has at its core certain
fundamental thinking strategies that are unique to trading.
如果你的⽬标是像专业⼈⼠⼀样交易，并成为持续⼀致性的赢家，那
么你必须从这个前提出发，解决⽅案在思想⾥，不在市场⾥。持续⼀
致性是⼀种思想，它最核⼼基础的思考策略是交易中独特的。
experiencing a few or more winning trades can convince almost anyone that
trading is easy. recall your own experiences; think back to those trades that
brought a stream of money flowing into your account when all you had
done was make a simple decision to buy or sell. now, combine the
extremely positive feeling you get from winning and getting money with no
effort, and it's almost impossible not to conclude that making money as a
trader is easy.

⼏次或多次的赢利交易会让任何⼈觉得交易是简单的。回想⼀下你的
体验，想想过去你仅仅是做了⼏个简单的买卖决定，就有很多钱流进
你的账户。此时结合赢利带来的超级积极的感觉和轻松赚钱的感觉，
那么⼏乎是⾃然地认为交易赚钱是轻松的。
but if that's the case, if trading is so easy, then why is it so difficult to
master? why are so many traders at their wits' end, grappling with the
obvious contradiction? if it is true that trading is easy - and traders know it
is because they've had the direct experience of how easy and effortless it is -
then how can it also be possible that they can't make what they've learned
about the markets work for them over and over again? in other words, how
do we account for the contradiction between what we believe about trading
and our actual trading results over time?
但是如果交易如此轻松，为什么如此难掌握？为什么很多交易者绞尽
脑汁地和明显的⽭盾⽃争？如果交易真的简单 -- 交易者知道是因为他
们确实有轻松赚钱的体验 -- 那为何他们学到的让市场为他们⼯作的⽅
法总是不能实现？换句话说，他们如何⾯对他们相信的东⻄和他们的
结果之间的⽭盾？
thinking about trading
思考交易
the answers are all in the way you think about it. the irony is that trading
can be as much fun and as effortless as your experience of it has been on
occasion; but experiencing these qualities consistently is a function of your
perspective, your beliefs, your attitudes, or your mindset. choose the term
you are most comfortable with; they all refer to the same thing: winning and
consistency are states of mind in the same way that happiness, having fun,
and satisfaction are states of mind.
答案取决于你如何思考。讽刺的是，交易可以像你体验的那样轻松有
趣，但持续⼀致性是你的观点、你的信念、你的态度或你的思想的功

能。选择你感觉最舒服的单词，它们都是⼀个意思：赢家思想和持续
⼀致性是思想状态，和幸福、有趣和满⾜都是⼀样的思想状态。
your state of mind is a by-product of your beliefs and attitudes. you can try
to create consistency without having the appropriate beliefs and attitudes,
but your results won't be any different than if you try to be happy when
you're not having fun. when you're not having fun, it can be very difficult to
change your perspective to one where you, all of a sudden, start enjoying
yourself.
你的思想状态是你的信念和态度的副产品。你可以不需要合适的信念
和态度，尽⼒制造持续⼀致性，但是你的结果和你玩乐时⼀样。当你
没有玩乐时，很难把你的观点突然变成开始享受的样⼦。
of course, the circumstances of your situation could suddenly shift in a way
that causes you to experience joy. but then your state of mind would be the
result of an external shift in conditions, not a result of an internal shift in
your attitude. if you depend on outside conditions and circumstances to
make you happy (so that you always are enjoying yourself), then it is
extremely unlikely that you will experience happiness on a consistent basis.
当然，你的环境会突然改变，让你去体验欢乐。那么你的思想状况是
外部环境变化的结果，不是内部态度改变的结果。如果你依靠外部状
况和环境以让你快乐（这样你就能永远享受⾃⼰），那么你⼏乎没可
能持续地体验快乐。
however, you can greatly increase the possibility of your being happy by
developing fun-type attitudes and, more specifically, by working on
neutralizing the beliefs and attitudes that prevent you from having fun or
enjoying yourself. creating consistent success as a trader works the same
way. you can't rely on the market to make you consistently successful, any
more than you can rely on the outside world to make you consistently
happy. people who are truly happy don't have to do anything in order to be
happy. they are happy people who do things.

然⽽，你可以通过改变信念和态度的⽅法来增加让你更快乐的可能。
制造持续⼀致的成功是⼀个道理。你不能指望市场让你持续⼀致性地
成功，就像你不能指望外部世界让你持续地快乐⼀样。快乐的⼈不需
要为了做什么才快乐。他们就是快乐做事的⼈。
traders who are consistently successful are consistent as a natural
expression of who they are. they don't have to try to be consistent; they are
consistent. this may seem like an abstract distinction, but it is vitally
important that you understand the difference. being consistent is not
something you can try to be, because the very act of trying will negate your
intent by mentally taking you out of the opportunity flow, making it less
likely that you will win and more likely you will lose.
持续⼀致性成功的交易者是在持续⼀致地，⾃然地表达他们。他们不
需要尽⼒做到持续⼀致性，他们就是持续⼀致性。也许这个差别看起
来很深奥，但明⽩这个差别是⾮常重要的。你⽆法努⼒实现持续⼀致
性，因为你的努⼒会通过错失机会⽽打消你的意愿，导致你很可能要
亏，⽽不是要赢。
your very best trades were easy and effortless. you didn't have to try to
make them easy; they were easy. there was no struggle. you saw exactly
what you needed to see, and you acted on what you saw. you were in the
moment, a part of the opportunity flow. when you're in the flow, you don't
have to try, because everything you know about the market is available to
you. nothing is being blocked or hidden from your awareness, and your
actions seem effortless because there's no struggle or resistance.
你的⼀些⾮常⾮常好的交易必定是简单轻松的。你不必让它们变得轻
松，它们本来就轻松。没有争⽃。你看⻅的就是你想看⻅的，你根据
看⻅的⾏动。机会在，你就在。当你在的时候，你不必努⼒，因为你
了解市场，它们就在你眼前。没有什么能蒙蔽你，躲过你的意识，因
为没有争⽃和阻⼒，你的⾏动很轻松。

on the other hand, having to try indicates that there is some degree of
resistance or struggle. otherwise, you would just be doing it and not have to
try to be doing it. it also indicates that you're trying to get what you want
from the market. while it seems natural to think this way, it's a perspective
fraught with difficulties. the best traders stay in the flow because they don't
try to get anything from the market; they simply make themselves available
so they can take advantage of whatever the market is offering at any given
moment. there's a huge difference between the two perspectives.
另⼀⽅⾯，如果要努⼒，那就意味着有某种程度的阻⼒或争⽃。要不
然，你仅仅去做就⾏了，不必努⼒。它还意味着你想尽⼒从市场得到
你想要的。当你很⾃然地这么想时，你的观点充满了不快和困难。最
优秀的交易者利⽤机会因为他们不从市场得到什么，他们只是在市场
提供机会的任何时候显⾝以占到优势。这两个观点有巨⼤的区别。
in chapter 3, i briefly illustrated how our minds are wired to avoid both
physical and emotional pain. if you trade from the perspective of trying to
get what you want or what you expect from the markets, what happens
when the market doesn't behave in a way that will fulfill your expectations?
your mental defense mechanisms kick in to compensate for the difference
between what you want and what you're not getting, so that you don't
experience any emotional pain. our minds are designed to automatically
block threatening information or find a way to obscure that information, in
order to shield us from the emotional discomfort we naturally feel when we
don't get what we want. you won't realize it in the moment, but you will
pick and choose information that is consistent with what you expect, so that
you can maintain a pain-free state of mind.
在第 03 章，我简单地说明了我们的思想如何同时避免⾝体痛苦和精神
痛苦。如果你交易的⽬的是尽⼒得到你想要的，或者希望市场给你想
要的，那么如果市场并没有如你所愿，会如何？你精神上的⾃卫系统
会起作⽤，以补偿你想要的和你没得到的之间的落差，这样你就不会
感到精神痛苦。当我们没有得到我们想要的，我们的精神就会感觉不

舒服，我的思想天⽣可以⾃动阻挡对我们不利的信息或掩饰信息，⽬
的是为了避免我们感觉不舒服。
however, in the process of trying to maintain a pain-free state of mind, you
also take yourself out of the opportunity flow and enter the realm of the
"could have," the "should have," the "would have," and the "if only."
everything that you could have, should have, or would have recognized in
the moment appeared invisible, then all becomes painfully evident after the
fact, after the opportunity is long gone.
然⽽，在尽量维持没有痛苦的思想状态的过程中，你⾃⼰错过了机会
流，进⼊了应该、本该、要是那样、如果那样的⼼理状态。所有你当
时看起来应该、本该、要是那样、如果那样的事物都是不可⻅的，那
么当事实和机会过去以后，都变成了痛苦事件。
to be consistent, you have to learn to think about trading in such a way that
you're no longer susceptible to conscious or subconscious mental processes
that cause you to obscure, block, or pick and choose information on the
basis of what will make you happy, give you what you want, or avoid pain.
你的意识或潜意识为了让你快乐，给你想要的或避免痛苦，在思想过
程中会导致你看不清、阻⽌或选择信息。要想实现持续⼀致性，你的
交易思想过程必须不能受这种意识或潜意识的影响。
the threat of pain generates fear, and fear is the source of 95 percent of the
errors you are likely to make. certainly, you can't be consistent or
experience the flow if you're consistently making errors, and you will make
errors, as long as you're afraid that what you want or what you expect won't
happen. furthermore, everything you attempt to do as a trader will be a
struggle, and it will seem as if you are struggling against the market or that
the market is against you personally. but, the reality is that it's all taking
place inside your mind. the market doesn't perceive the information it
makes available; you do. if there's a struggle, it is you who are struggling
against your own internal resistance, conflicts and fears.

痛苦的威胁产⽣恐惧，恐惧是你 95% 的错误的根源。当然，如果你总
是在犯错，你不能实现持续⼀致性或利⽤机会，只要你害怕或担⼼你
希望的事不会发⽣，你就会犯错。⽽且，你为交易所做的事都是在争
⽃，看起来你在和市场⽃，或市场也在和你⽃。但实际上是你的内⼼
在⽃。市场并不知道它产⽣的信息，你明⽩这个道理。如果有争⽃，
那是你在和⾃⼰内⼼的阻⼒、冲突和恐惧争⽃。
now, you may be asking yourself, how can i think about trading in such a
way that i'm no longer afraid and, therefore, no longer susceptible to the
mental processes that cause me to block, obscure, or pick and choose
information? the answer is: learn to accept the risk.
也许你会问⾃⼰，我如何才能做到交易时不害怕，因此，我再也不受
精神影响，导致我阻⽌、看不清或选择信息？答案是：学习接受⻛
险。
really understanding risk
完全明⽩⻛险
other than the many issues surrounding responsibility that we discussed in
chapter 3, there isn't anything about trading that is more central to your
success and also more misunderstood than the concept of accepting the risk.
as i mentioned in the first chapter, most traders erroneously assume that
because they are engaged in the inherently risky activity of putting on and
taking off trades, they are also accepting that risk. i will repeat that this
assumption couldn't be further from the truth.
我们在第 03 章谈了责任的相关因素，对你成功最重要的就是不要误解
接受⻛险的意思。在前⾯⼀章我说了，⼤部分交易者错误地认为他们
的交易有⻛险，所以他们也接受了⻛险。我要重复说⼀遍，这个想法
和真实的⼀⾯不同。

accepting the risk means accepting the consequences of your trades without
emotional discomfort or fear. this means that you must learn how to think
about trading and your relationship with the markets in such a way that the
possibility of being wrong, losing, missing out, or leaving money on the
table doesn't cause your mental defense mechanisms to kick in and take you
out of the opportunity flow. it doesn't do you any good to take the risk of
putting on a trade if you are afraid of the consequences, because your fears
will act on your perception of information and your behavior in a way that
will cause you to create the very experience you fear the most, the one you
are trying to avoid.
接受⻛险意味着接受交易的结果，不能带有精神上的不安或害怕。这
意味着你必须思考你和市场的关系，让可能产⽣的错误、亏损、错失
良机或不利的交易不会引起你精神⾃卫系统起作⽤，导致你失去了机
会。如果你害怕结果，接受⻛险不起任何作⽤，因为害怕会影响你对
信息的看法，也会影响你的⾏为，导致你产⽣了最⼤的害怕，⽽这正
是你要避免的。
i am offering you a specific thinking strategy composed of a set of beliefs
that will keep you focused, in the moment, and in the flow. with this
perspective, you will not be trying to get anything from the market or to
avoid anything. rather, you will let the market unfold and you will make
yourself available to take advantage of whatever situations you define as
opportunities.
我会告诉你⼀个特定的思考策略，它包括⼀套信念，会让你在交易时
保持关注。有了这个认知，你不必再努⼒从市场得到什么或避免什
么。⽽且，市场在你⾯前展开，你可以利⽤⾃⼰定义的任何优势。
when you make yourself available to take advantage of an opportunity, you
don't impose any limitations or expectations on the market's behaviour. you
are satisfied to let the market do whatever it's going to do. however, in the
process of doing something, the market will create certain conditions you
define and perceive as opportunities. you act on those opportunities to the

best of your ability, but your state of mind is not dependent upon or affected
by the market's behavior.
当你开始利⽤机会优势时，你不要对市场⾏为有任何限制或期望。市
场要怎么样就怎么样，你感到很满意。然⽽，在市场的⾏进过程中，
市场会制造⼀些你定义或认为的机会。你抓住这些机会，尽量努⼒，
但你的思想还是独⽴的，不会受市场⾏为的影响。
if you can learn to create a state of mind that is not affected by the market's
behavior, the struggle will cease to exist. when the internal struggle ends,
everything becomes easy. at that point, you can take full advantage of all
your skills, analytical or otherwise, to eventually realize your potential as a
trader.
如果你能形成⼀种思想，不受市场⾏为的影响，内⼼的争⽃就没有
了。当内⼼的争⽃结束了，所有事都变的轻松。此时你可以利⽤所有
的优势、技术、分析或其它，以最终实现做⼀个交易者。
here's the challenge! how do you accept the risks of trading without
emotional discomfort and fear, when at the moment you perceive the risk,
you simultaneously feel discomfort and fear? in other words, how do you
remain confident and pain-free when you are absolutely certain you can be
proved wrong, lose money, miss out, or leave money on the table? as you
can see, your fear and feeling of discomfort are completely justified and
rational. each of those possibilities becomes real the moment you
contemplate interacting with the market.
这⾥有挑战！因为当你看⻅⻛险时，你⽴刻的反应是感觉不安和害
怕。你如何做到接受⻛险时没有不安和害怕？
however, as true as all of these possibilities are for every trader, what isn't
true or the same for every trader is what it means to be wrong, lose, miss
out, or leave money on the table. not everyone shares the same beliefs and
attitudes about these possibilities and, therefore, we don't share the same
emotional sensitivities. in other words, not everyone is afraid of the same
things. this may seem obvious, but i assure you it is not. when we're afraid,

the emotional discomfort we feel in the moment is so real that it's beyond
question, and it's natural to assume that everyone shares our reality.
然⽽，对每个交易者来说概率都是真实的，不真实的是犯错、亏损、
错过机会或不利的交易。不是每个⼈对概率的信念和态度都⼀样的，
因此情绪上的感觉也不⼀样。换句话说，并不是每个⼈都害怕同样的
事。这也许看起来明显，但我想不是这么明显。当我们害怕时，情绪
上的不安太真实了，因此会觉得每个⼈都有这样的不安。
i will give you a perfect example of what i am talking about. i recently
worked with a trader, who was deathly afraid of snakes. as far as he was
concerned, he had always been afraid of snakes because he couldn't recall a
time when he wasn't. now he is married and has a three-year-old daughter.
one evening, while his wife was out of town, his daughter and he were
invited to a friend's house for dinner. unbeknownst to my client, his friends
child had a pet snake.
我将告诉你⼀个具体的例⼦。我最近和⼀个交易者沟通，他超级怕
蛇。他已经不记得他为什么怕蛇了，只知道他⼀直怕蛇。现在他已结
婚，有⼀个 3 岁的⼥⼉。⼀天晚上，她的妻⼦去其它城市了，他的朋友
邀请他和他⼥⼉⼀起去吃晚饭。我的客户不知道他朋友的⼩孩有⼀条
宠物蛇。
when the friends child brought out the snake for everyone to see, my client
freaked and practically leapt to the other side of the room to get as far away
from the snake as possible. his daughter, on the other hand, was completely
enthralled with the snake, and wouldn't leave it alone.
当朋友的⼩孩把蛇拿出来给所有⼈看时，我的朋友吓坏了，差不多跳
到房间的另⼀边去了。他的⼥⼉相反，对蛇着迷，不愿意离开。
when he related this story to me, he said that he was not only shocked by
the unexpected confrontation with the snake, but that he was just as shocked
by his daughter's reaction. she wasn't afraid and he assumed that she would
be. i explained to him that his fear was so intense and his attachment to his

daughter was so great that it was inconceivable to him that his daughter
would not automatically share his reality about snakes. but then i pointed
out, there really wasn't any way she could have shared his experience,
unless he specifically taught her to be afraid of snakes or she had had her
own painful frightening experience. otherwise, without anything to the
contrary in her mental system, the most likely reaction to her first encounter
with a living snake would be pure, unadulterated fascination.
当他告诉我这个故事时，他说他不但被突然出现的蛇吓坏了，⽽且他
被他⼥⼉的举动吓坏了。他以为她会害怕，但她不害怕。我对他解释
说，因为他太怕蛇了，⽽他和⼥⼉的关系⼜很亲，所以当他⼥⼉不怕
蛇时，他就会觉得不可思议。但是我指出，她实在没有必要也怕蛇，
除⾮有⼈叫她注意蛇或者她⾃⼰被蛇吓过。因此，既然她的思想⾥没
有不好的印象，那么她第⼀次⻅到蛇的反应就是纯粹的着迷。
just as my client assumed that his daughter would be afraid of snakes, most
traders assume the best traders, like themselves, are also afraid of being
wrong, losing, missing out, and leaving money on the table. they assume
that the best traders somehow neutralize their fears with an inordinate
amount of courage, nerves of steel, and self-control.
就像这个客户以为他的⼥⼉会怕蛇，⼤部分交易者以为最优秀的交易
者像他们⼀样害怕犯错、亏损、错过机会、进⾏不利的交易。他们以
为最优秀的交易者⽤过⼤的勇⽓、钢铁意志和⾃控中和了他们的恐
惧。
like many other things about trading, what seems to make sense, just isn't
the case. certainly, any one or all of these characteristics may be present in
any top trader. but what is not true is that these characteristics play any role
in their superior performance. needing courage, nerves of steel, or self-
control would imply an internal conflict where one force is being used to
counteract the effects of another. any degree of struggle, trying, or fear
associated with trading will take you out of the moment and flow and,
therefore, diminish your results.

就像交易中的其它事，看起来有道理，但没道理。当然，最优秀的交
易者也会体现这些特点。但这些特点对他们的超级表达有帮助则是错
误的。需要勇⽓、钢铁般的意志和⾃控会在内⼼发⽣冲突。任何程度
的争⽃，努⼒或恐惧在任何时候都会让你失控，失去结果。
this is where professional traders really separate themselves from the
crowd. when you accept the risk the way the pros do, you won't perceive
anything that the market can do as threatening. if nothing is threatening,
there's nothing to fear. if you're not afraid, you don't need courage. if you're
not stressed, why would you need nerves of steel? and if you're not afraid of
your potential to get reckless, because you have the appropriate monitoring
mechanisms in place, then you have no need for self-control. as you
contemplate the implications of what i am saying, i want you to keep
something in mind: very few people who go into trading start out with the
appropriate beliefs and attitudes about responsibility and risk. there are
some who do but it's rare. everyone else goes through the same cycle i
described in the example of the novice trader: we start out carefree, then
become scared, and our fears continually diminish our potential.
这就是专业交易者和⼤众不同的地⽅。⼀旦你像专业交易者⼀样接受
⻛险，你不会觉得市场在威胁你。如果没有什么东⻄能威胁你，也就
没有什么可怕的了。如果你害怕，那么你没有勇⽓。如果你没有压
⼒，为什么你需要钢铁般的意志？如果你不怕变得轻率，是因为你有
合适的监控系统，那么你不需要⾃控。如果你仔细考虑了我说的话，
我希望你记住：极少数的⼈在开始交易时有合适的关于责任和⻛险的
信念和态度。有这样的⼈，但很少。其他⼈都要体验我所说的新⼿的
情况：我们开始交易时⽆忧⽆虑，然后变得害怕，害怕让我们的潜能
消失了。
the traders who break through the cycle and ultimately make it are the ones
who eventually learn to stop avoiding and start embracing the responsibility
and the risk. most of those who successfully break the cycle don't make the
shift in thinking until they have experienced so much pain from large losses

that it has the positive effect of stripping away their illusions about the
nature of trading.
那些学习避免并拥抱责任和⻛险的交易者能打破循环并最终成功。⼤
部分打破循环的⼈在思想⽅⾯还没有改变，直到他们体验的痛苦和重
⼤损失让他们放弃交易时的幻想。
with respect to your development, the how of their transformation is not
that important, because in most cases it happened inadvertently. in other
words, they weren't completely aware of the shifts that were taking place
inside their mental environment until they experienced the positive effects
their new perspective had on the ways in which they interacted with the
market. this is why very few top traders can really explain what accounts
for their success, except to speak in axioms like "cut your losses" and "go
with the flow." what is important is that you understand it is completely
possible to think the way the professionals do and to trade without fear,
even though your direct experience as a trader would argue otherwise.
关于你的发展，它是如何变化的并不重要，因为⼤多时都是不经意间
发⽣的。换句话说，当他们⽤新的观点研究市场体验到积极效果时，
他们精神环境的变化已经发⽣了，他们很难感觉到这点。这就是为什
么极少的⾼级交易者能解释成功的原因是什么，⽽不是仅仅说： " 截断
损失 " 和 " 顺势交易 " 。
aligning your mental environment
让你的思想持续⼀致
now we're going to start zeroing in on exactly how you can align your
mental environment in order to accept the risk and function like a
professional trader. most of what i've discussed up to this point was
designed to get you ready to do the real work. i'm going to teach you a
thinking strategy that has, at its core, a firm belief in probabilities and
edges. with this new thinking strategy, you'll learn how to create a new
relationship with the market, one that disassociates your trading from what

it typically means to be wrong or to lose, and that precludes you from
perceiving anything about the market as threatening. when the threat of pain
is gone, the fear will correspondingly disappear, as will the fear-based
errors you are susceptible to. you will be left with a mind that is free to see
what is available and to act on what you see.
现在让我们认真看看究竟你要如何调整你的思想以接受⻛险并像专业
交易者那么运作。之前我就谈了这些内容，是为了让你做好实战的准
备。我准备教你⼀个思考策略，它的核⼼就是让你在概率⽅⾯有坚定
的信念。有了这种思想策略，你会学习如何和市场建⽴新的关系，让
你的交易和典型的犯错或亏损分离，防⽌你以为市场都是有威胁的。
当痛苦的威胁消失了，害怕也会相应地消失，你也不会再因为害怕⽽
犯错。剩下来的就是根据你看到的去做交易。
getting to this carefree, fearless state of mind, in spite of being burned over
and over again, will take some work, but it's not going to be so difficult as
you may think. in fact, by the time you've finished reading this book, most
of you will be amazed at how simple the solutions to your problems really
are.
实现这种⽆忧⽆虑，不害怕的思想，还不在乎⼀次⼜⼀次地被烧伤，
是需要⼀些努⼒的，但也没有你想的那么困难。实际上，当你读完本
书时，你会吃惊地发现解决你的问题是多么的简单。
in many respects, a state of mind or perspective is like software code. you
could have several thousand lines of perfectly written code, with only one
flawed line, and in that one flawed line there might be only one character
out of place. depending on the purpose of the software and where that flaw
is in relation to everything else, that one misplaced character could ruin the
performance of an otherwise perfectly written system. you see, the solution
was simple: fix the misplaced character, and everything runs smoothly.
however, finding the error or even knowing it exists in the first place can
take considerable expertise.

在很多⽅⾯，思想或认知就像软件代码。你写了⼏千⾏程序，只有⼀
⾏有错误，⽽错的这⾏只是⼀个字⺟错位了。根据软件的⽬的和错误
的性质，这个错位的字⺟会毁了整个完美的软件系统。你看，解决⽅
案是简单：把错误的字⺟改好，其它就正常了。然⽽，要想知道这个
错误在哪⾥或找到这个错误是需要很多经验的。
when it comes to the ideal trading mentality, everybody is a certain
psychological distance away. in other words, virtually everyone starts out
with flawed software code. i use terms like clicks or degrees to indicate
psychological distance but these terms don't imply a specific distance. so,
for example, many of you will find that you are only, let's say, one click
away in perspective from the ideal mind-set. that one click could represent
one or two erroneous or misplaced assumptions you have about the nature
of trading. as you reflect upon some of the ideas presented in this book,
your perspective may shift. to use the analogy of software code, that shift
would be equivalent to finding the flawed line in your mental system and
replacing it with something that works properly.
如果要说理想的交易思想，每个⼈在⼼理上都有差距。换句话说，⼏
乎每个⼈⼀开始的软件都有错误代码。我⽤基点或程度来表达⼼理差
距，但不是指真实的距离。所以举个例⼦，很多⼈发现⾃⼰离理想的
思想只有⼀个基点。也许这⼀个基点代表了你对交易本质的 1 ， 2 错误
或不当的认知。也许本书提到的⼀些思想会让你做了反应，你的认知
有所改变。⽤软件代码做⽐喻，这个改变就相当于找到精神系统的错
误代码⾏并⽤正确的东⻄代替它。
people normally describe this kind of internal mental shift as an "ah, ha"
experience, or the moment when the light goes on. everyone has had these
kinds of experiences, and there are some common qualities associated with
them. first, we usually feel different. the world even seems different, as if it
had suddenly changed. typically, we might say at the moment of the
breakthrough something like, "why didn't you tell me this before?" or, "it
was right in front of me the whole time, but i just didn't see it" or, "it's so
simple; why couldn't i see it?" another interesting phenomenon of the "ah,

ha" experience, is that sometimes within moments, although the amount of
time can vary, we feel as if this new part of our identity has always been a
part of who we are. it then becomes difficult to believe that we were ever
the way we were before we had the experience.
对于这种思想转变，或突然的感悟，⼈们通常⽤ " 啊，哈 " 来表达。每
个⼈都有这样的经验，同时有⼀些共同的特征。⾸先，我们通常感觉
不同了。甚⾄这个世界看起来都不同了，好像突然改变了。典型情况
下，我们会在顿悟的这⼀瞬间说： " 为什么你不早点告诉我？ " 或 " 它⼀
直就在我⾯前，我竟然没看⻅。 " 或 " 太简单了，我怎么就不知道
呢？ " 这种 " 啊，哈 " 的体验还伴随着⼀个有趣的现象，在极少数情况
下，我们在瞬间发现我们早就知道这个结论。在这个体验发⽣前是很
难相信我们以前就是这么认为的。
in short, you may already have some awareness of much of what you need
to know to be a consistently successful trader. but being aware of something
doesn't automatically make it a functional part of who you are. awareness is
not necessarily a belief. you can't assume that learning about something
new and agreeing with it is the same as believing it at a level where you can
act on it.
简单说，也许关于持续⼀致交易的认知，你早就有了。但是有这个认
知并不能⾃动地变成你⼀部分的功能。认知不是信念。你不能认为学
习并接受新东⻄和相信它并以此作为⾏动依据是不同的。
take the example of my client who is afraid of snakes. he is certainly aware
that not all snakes are dangerous, and that learning how to make a
distinction between the ones that are dangerous and the ones that aren't
would not be difficult. will learning how to make these distinctions
suddenly cause him not to be afraid of "non-dangerous snakes"? can we
assume that his awareness will drop down to a level in his mental
environment where he can now interact with snakes without fear or
immobility? no, we cannot make this assumption. his awareness that some
snakes aren't dangerous and his fear of snakes can exist side by side in his
mental environment, as a contradiction to each other. you could confront

him with a snake and he might readily acknowledge that he knows the
snake is not dangerous and wouldn't hurt him; but, at the same time, he
would still find it extremely difficult to touch the snake, even if he wanted
to.
我拿那个怕蛇的客户举例⼦。他当然知道不是所有的蛇都有危险，让
他学习区别哪种蛇是危险的，哪种是不危险的，这是没有困难的。学
习了如何区别蛇能让他突然变得 " 不怕蛇 " 吗？我们会认为他的思想意
识会降低到⼀个⽔平，让他不再害怕或平静地和蛇玩吗？不，我们不
能这么想。在他的思想⾥，有些蛇是不危险的，这个想法和他的恐惧
互相⽭盾。你可以拿⼀条蛇接近他，也许他知道这条蛇没有危险，不
会伤害他，同时，即使他想去摸摸蛇，他会发现要做到这点是困难
的。
does this mean that he is doomed to be afraid of snakes for the rest of his
life? only if he wants to be. it's really a matter of willingness. it's certainly
possible to neutralize his fear, but he will have to work at it, and working at
anything requires sufficient motivation. many of us have what we know to
be irrational fears and simply choose to live with the contradiction because
we don't want to go through the emotional work that is necessary to
overcome the fear.
这是不是意味着他⼀辈⼦注定怕蛇了？如果他想这样，那么就是这样
了。这完全是意愿的事。当然有可能中和他的恐惧，但是他必须努
⼒，⽤⼀切可能的动机去努⼒。我们很多⼈都有不合理的恐惧，因为
我们不想通过努⼒克服这样的恐惧，我们就简单地⽣活在⽭盾中。
in this example, the contradiction is obvious. however, in my many years of
working with traders, i have uncovered several typical contradictions and
conflicts surrounding the issues of risk and responsibility, where holding
two or more conflicting beliefs can easily cancel out your positive
intentions, no matter how motivated you are to be successful. the problem is
that none of these contradictions are really obvious, at least not at first
glance.

在这个例⼦中，⽭盾是明显的。然⽽，对于有多年经验的交易者来
说，我发现了关于⻛险和责任的⼏个典型的⽭盾和冲突的⼼理，持有 2
个或更多的互相冲突的信念会很容易地打消你积极的观念，就算你有
动⼒也不⾏。问题就是，这些⽭盾不明显，⾄少不是⼀眼就能看出
的。
contradictory beliefs, however, aren't the only problems. what about
assertions like "i'm a risk taker," that traders typically assume have dropped
down to the functional level of a belief when, in fact, the underlying
dynamics of the way they perceive the market indicates they are doing
everything possible to avoid risk.
然⽽，⽭盾的信念不是唯⼀的问题。就像有⼈说： " 我是可以接受⻛险
的⼈ " ，这个交易者以为⾃⼰的信念是有效的，实际上，他对市场内在
的认识表明他在努⼒避免⻛险。
contradictory beliefs and nonfunctional awareness represent flawed mental
software code; code that destroys your ability to stay focused and
accomplish your goals; code that makes it seem as if you simultaneously
have one foot on the accelerator and the other on the brake; code that gives
learning how to trade a mysterious quality that will be challenging in a fun
way at first, but usually turns into pure, unadulterated exasperation.
⽭盾的信念和不起作⽤的意识代表了有错误的软件代码，这样的代码
破坏了你聚焦的能⼒，让你⽆法实现⽬标，这样的代码看起来就像你
⼀只脚踩着油门，另⼀只脚踩着刹⻋，这样的代码让学习⼀个难以理
解的东⻄在⼀开始觉得有趣，但是很快就变成了纯粹的，未成年⼈的
恼怒。
when i was in college in the late 1960s, one of my favorite movies was cool
hand luke, starring paul newman. it was a very popular movie back then, so
i'm sure some of you have seen it on late-night tv. luke was in a georgia
chain gang. after he escaped and was caught for the second time, the
warden and guards were determined not to let luke make fools of them a