third time. so while forcing him to do an inordinate amount of work with no
rest and giving him intermittent beatings, they kept asking, "have you got
your mind right yet, luke?" eventually, after considerable suffering, luke
finally told the prison bosses that he had his mind right. they said that if he
didn't, and tried to escape again, they'd kill him for sure. of course, luke
attempted another escape, and true to their word, the guards killed him.
60 年代末我在读⼤学，我最喜欢的电影中有⼀部叫《铁窗喋⾎》，是
保罗 · 纽曼主演的。这部电影在当时很流⾏，所以我相信有些⼈后来会
在电视上⾯看⻅。卢克在乔治亚州服刑。他第⼆次越狱，被抓住以
后，监狱⻓和守卫都觉得再也不能被卢克愚弄了。所以他们逼他做很
多事，还会时不时地打他，他们⼀直在说： " 卢克，你想清楚了没
有？ " 卢克受了不少苦，最后告诉监狱⻓他想清楚了。他们说，如果他
还没想清楚，如果还越狱，他们肯定会杀了他。当然了，卢克再次企
图越狱，守卫们真的杀了他。
like luke, many traders, whether they realize it or not, are trying to have it
their way by beating the market; as a result, they get financially and
emotionally killed. there are easier, infinitely more satisfying ways of
getting what you want from the market, but first you have to be willing to
"get your mind right."
就像卢克⼀样，不管是不是真的明⽩，很多交易者都想战胜市场，结
果他们在⾦钱上和精神上都被杀了。其实有更轻松的，很多更好的⽅
法从市场中得到你想要的东⻄，但⾸先你要 " 想清楚 " 。
Chapter 5 the dynamics of perception
第  05 章  认知的动⼒
one of the primary objectives of this book is to teach you how to take the
threat of pain out of market information. the market doesn't generate happy
or painful information. from the markets perspective, it's all simply
information. it may seem as if the market is causing you to feel the way you

do at any given moment, but that's not the case. it's your own mental
framework that determines how you perceive the information, how you
feel, and, as a result, whether or not you are in the most conducive state of
mind to spontaneously enter the flow and take advantage of whatever the
market is offering.
本书的⼀个最初⽬的就是教你如何从市场信息中去除痛苦的威胁。市
场不会制造快乐的信息，也不会制造痛苦的信息。从市场的⾓度来
说，它们仅仅是信息。看起来好像是市场让你做什么事，但不是的。
不管你的感觉如何，不管你的思想是否有助于你进场抢优势以得到你
想要的，其实是你的思想在解读信息。
professionals don't perceive anything about the markets as painful;
therefore, no threat exists for them. if there's no threat, there's nothing to
defend against. as a result, there isn't any reason for their conscious or
subconscious defense mechanisms to kick in. that's why professionals can
see and do things that mystify everyone else. they're in the flow, because
they're perceiving an endless stream of opportunities, and when they're not
in the flow, the very best of the best can recognize that fact and then
compensate by either scaling back or not trading at all.
专业交易者不会把市场的任何信息看成痛苦的，因此，就没有什么能
威胁他们。如果没有威胁，就没有什么要防范的。结果就是他们的意
识或潜意识⽅⾯的防范系统就不会⾃动起作⽤。这就是为什么专业交
易者看⻅的事和做的事都让别⼈迷惑不解。他们顺势交易，因为他们
看⻅了⽆限的机会；如果他们没有顺势交易，最优秀的⼈会发现这个
事实，他们会通过剥头⽪或观望的⽅式来弥补。
if your goal is to be able to trade like the professionals, you must be able to
see the market from an objective perspective, without distortion. you must
be able to act without resistance or hesitation, but with the appropriate
amount of positive restraint to counteract the negative effects of
overconfidence or euphoria. in essence, your objective is to be able to
create a unique state of mind, a traders mentality. when you've

accomplished this, everything else about your success as a trader will fall
into place.
如果你的⽬标是像专业交易者那样交易，你必须⽤客观的态度来看待
市场，不能对市场有曲解。你在交易时必须没有压⼒或不会犹豫，还
必须⽤积极的态度克服过分⾃信或过分兴奋的消极效果。核⼼思想就
是，你的⽬标就是形成交易者的思想。当你完成了这些，关于交易的
任何⽅⾯都会各就各位。
to help you achieve that objective, i'm going to give you a way to redefine
your relationship to market information so that there will be little or no
potential to perceive any of it as threatening. by "redefine," i mean to
change your perspective and operate out of a mental framework that keeps
you focused on the opportunities available instead of tapping you into
emotional pain.
为了帮助你实现这个⽬标，我将告诉你重新定义你和市场信息的关
系，这样就你不会或很少会把市场看成威胁。我说 " 重新定义 " ，意思
是说改变你的认知和思想框架，让你专注于机会，⽽不涉及精神痛
苦。
debugging your mental software
为你的思想软件找茬
in other words, we want to get the bugs out of our mental software code and
get our minds right. doing this effectively will require an understanding of
the nature of mental energy and how you can use that energy to change a
perspective that is generating an unwanted, negative, emotional response to
market information. there's much to learn, but i think you will be amazed at
how some simple changes can make a huge difference in your trading
results.
换句话说，我们想把思想软件⾥⾯的错误找出来，让⾃⼰的思想是正
确的。要想有效地做到这点，需要知道思想能量，还要知道如何改变

这个能量，如何改变你从市场得到的不喜欢的、消极的、情绪的反
应。要学的东⻄很多，但你会吃惊地发现简单的改变就能产⽣巨⼤的
不同的交易结果。
the process of trading starts with perceiving an opportunity. without the
perception of an opportunity, we wouldn't have a reason to trade. so i think
it is only fitting that we start our examination of mental energy by breaking
down the process of perception. what are the underlying dynamics of
perception? what factors determine how we perceive information or what
we perceive in relationship to what is available? how is perception
connected with what we experience at any given moment?
交易是从看到机会开始的。如果没有看到机会，我们没有理由去交
易。所以我想通过解剖认知的过程，我们就可以检查思想能量，让⼀
开始就是对的。认知下⾯的动⼒是什么？是什么因素决定我们对信息
的认知，或我们是如何认知事物的？我们在任何时刻的认知是如何联
系起来的？
probably the easiest way to understand the dynamics of perception and
answer these questions is to think of everything (and i do… tion of forces -
forces that generate information about the properties, characteristics, and
traits that make them uniquely what they are.
可能最简单的理解认知的动⼒的答案是把任何事想（张轶注：英语影
印件在这⾥有缺失，⽆法翻译完整） -- ⼒量产⽣了信息，是关于性
质、特点和特⾊的信息，这些信息⽤独特的⽅式表明它们是什么。
everything that exists outside of our bodies - all plants and all categories of
life; all planetary phenomena in the form of weather conditions,
earthquakes, and volcanic eruptions; all active and inert physical matter;
and all non-corporeal phenomena such as light, sound waves, microwaves,
and radiation - generates information about the nature of its existence. that
information has the potential to act as a force on one of our five physical
senses.

我们⾝体之外的任何东⻄ -- 所有的星球和所有的⽣命；所有的天⽓现
象、地震和⽕⼭爆发；活跃的和不活跃的物体；所有的⾮⾁体现象，
⽐如光、声波、微波和辐射 -- 产⽣了⾃然存在的信息。这些信息有可
能对我们的某个物理感官产⽣作⽤⼒。
before we go any further, notice that i use the verb "generate" in an all-
inclusive way implying that everything is in an active state of expression,
including inanimate objects. to illustrate why i do that, let's look at
something as simple as a rock. it's an inanimate object, composed of unique
atoms and molecules expressing themselves as a rock. i can use the active
verb "expressing" because the atoms and molecules that make up the rock
are in constant motion. so, even though the rock doesn't appear active
except in the most abstract sense, it has characteristics and properties that
will act as forces on our senses, causing us to experience and make
distinctions about the nature of its existence. for example, a rock has
texture, and that texture acts as a force on our sense of touch if we run our
fingers across the rock's surface. a rock has shape and color, which act as a
force on our vision; the rock takes up space that no other object can occupy,
so that we see it instead of an empty space or some other object. a rock can
also have an odor that acts as a force on our sense of smell, or taste like
something, although i haven't licked any rocks lately to find out.
在更深⼊的讲解之前，请注意我⽤了 " 产⽣ " 这个动词，这表明任何事
物都在表达⾃⼰，包括⾮⽣物。为了说明我为什么这么做，让我们看
看简单的⽯头。它是⾮⽣物，独特的原⼦和分⼦表明它们是⽯头。我
可以⽤动词 " 表达 " ，因为组成⽯头的原⼦和分⼦在不停地运动。所
以，即使⽯头看起来没有动，它们的特点和性质对我们的感觉有作⽤
⼒，让我们的经验可以区别它们，并知道他们的存在。⽐如，⽯头有
纹路，如果我们⽤⼿指摸⽯头，我们能感觉到纹路。⽯头有形状和颜
⾊，对我们的视觉有作⽤⼒。⽯头占据的位置，其它东⻄就不能占据
了，所以我们能在空间上感觉到⽯头的存在，⽽不是空的或是其它东
⻄。⽯头还有味道，对我们的嗅觉和味觉有作⽤⼒，虽然我⾃⼰并没
有舔过⽯头。

when we encounter anything in the environment that expresses its
properties and characteristics, an exchange of energy takes place. energy
from the outside, in the form of whatever is expressing itself, gets
transformed by our nervous system into electrical impulses and then gets
stored in our inner, mental environment. to be more specific, whatever we
are seeing, hearing, tasting, smelling, or feeling through our senses gets
transformed into electrical impulses of energy and stored in our mental
environment as a memory and/or dis-
不管在什么环境下遇到了什么，如果它在表达⾃⼰的性质和特点，那
么就有能量交换。外部的能量，不管它在表达什么，通过我们的神经
系统变成电脉冲，然后储存在思想环境⾥。更具体地说，不管是什
么，我们看⻅的、听⻅的、尝到的、闻到的或感觉到的，都变成了电
脉冲的能量，存储在思想环境⾥，作为记忆和 …… （张轶注：英语影
印件在这⾥有缺失，⽆法翻译完整）
i think all of this is fairly self-evident to most people, but there are some
profound implications here that aren't self-evident, and we typically take
them completely for granted. first of all, there's a cause-and-effect
relationship that exists between ourselves and everything else that exists in
the external environment. as a result, our encounters with external forces
create what i am going to call "energy structures" inside our minds. the
memories, distinctions, and, ultimately, the beliefs we acquire throughout
our lives exist in our mental environment in the form of structured energy.
structured energy is an abstract concept. you might be asking yourself,
"how does energy take shape or form?" before i answer this question, an
even more fundamental question needs to be addressed. how do we know
that memories, distinctions, and beliefs exist in the form of energy in the
first place?
我相信对⼤部分⼈来说，这些都是不⾔⽽喻的，但是有⼀些深刻的含
义就没有这么明显，我们则想当然地接受了。⾸先，在外部环境中，
我们和任何事物之间都有⼀个因果关系。

i don't know if it's been scientifically proven or completely accepted by the
scientific community, but ask yourself in what other form could these
mental components exist? here's what we know for sure: anything
composed of atoms and molecules takes up space and, therefore, can be
observed. if memories, distinctions, and beliefs existed in some physical
form, then we should be able to observe them. to my knowledge, no such
observations have been made. the scientific community has dissected brain
tissue (both living and dead) examined it at the level of the individual atom,
mapped various regions of the brain in terms of their functions, but nobody,
as yet, has observed a memory, distinction, or belief in its natural form. by
"in its natural form" i mean that although a scientist can observe the
individual brain cells that contain certain memories, he can't experience
those memories first hand. he can only experience them if the person to
whom the memories belong is alive and chooses to express them in some
way.
我不知道这个观点是不是被科学地证明了，也不知道是不是被科学界
接受了，但是你可以问⾃⼰，这些精神因素会以什么形式存在？我们
可以确定这些：任何由原⼦和分⼦组成的东⻄都有空间，因此能被看
⻅。如果记忆、辨别和信念有物理形态，那么我们就能看⻅它们。就
我所知，⽬前没有这样的观察⽅法。科学上已经可以对脑组织进⾏解
剖（⽆论是死体还是活体），可以在原⼦层次分析它，并画出不同功
能的脑结构。但是⾄今⽆⼈能观察到记忆、辨别和信念的⾃然状态。
我说的 " ⾃然状态 " 是指，即使科学家可以观察脑细胞，但是他不能体
验脑细胞的记忆。如果⼀个⼈愿意分享他的记忆，科学家才能体会到
他的记忆。
if memories, distinctions, and beliefs don't exist as physical matter, then
there really isn't any alternative way for them to exist except as some form
of energy. if this is in fact the case, can this energy take on a specific shape?
can it be structured in a way that reflects the external forces that caused it to
come into existence? most definitely! is there anything in the environment
that is analogous to energy having shape

如果记忆、辨别和信念没有物理形态，那么它们就没有存在的⽅式，
除⾮以能量的形式存在。如果事实就是如此，那么这个能量有具体的
形状吗？外部的⼒量会改变它们的结构吗？更重要的！⾃然界有什么
东⻄和能量的形态相似（张轶注：英语影印件在这⾥有缺失，⽆法翻
译完整）
thoughts are energy. because you think in a language, your thoughts are
structured by the limitations and rules that govern the particular language in
which you think. when you express those thoughts aloud, you create sound
waves, which are a form of energy. the sound waves created by the
interaction of your vocal cords and tongue are structured by the content of
your message. microwaves are energy. many phone calls are relayed by
microwaves, which means that the microwave energy has to be structured in
a way that reflects the message it is carrying. laser light is energy, and if
you've ever witnessed a demonstration of a laser light show, or laser art,
what you've seen is pure energy taking a shape that reflects the creative
desires of the artists.
思想就是能量。因为当你⽤⼀个语⾔去思考时，这个语⾔的限制和原
则就会对你的思想形成⼀定的架构。当你⼤声表达这些思想时，你就
制造了声波，声波就是⼀种能量。根据你要传达信息的不同，你的声
带和⾆头产⽣的声波也不同。微波是能量。很多电话需要微波传送，
这意味着微波的能量必须有⼀定的结构，这样才能传送信息。激光是
能量，如果你⻅过激光表达或激光艺术，它们的表达形式就是艺术家
创造的。
all of these are good examples of how energy can take shape, form, and
structure. of course, there are many more, but there is one more example
that illustrates the point in the most graphic way. at the most fundamental
level, what are dreams? i am not asking you what dreams mean or what you
think their purpose is, but rather, what are they? what are their properties? if
we assume that dreams take place within the confines of our skulls, then
they can't be composed of atoms and molecules, because there wouldn't be
enough space for all of the things that exist and take place in our dreams.

dream experiences seem to have the same proportions and dimensions as
the things we perceive when we are awake and experiencing life through
our five senses. the only way this could be possible is if dreams were a form
of structured energy, because energy can take on any size or dimension, but,
in doing so, doesn't actually take up any space.
这些都说明了能量是如何形成、组成和构成形状的。当然了，还有很
多例⼦，但是还有⼀个例⼦⽤最形象的⽅式说明了要点。从最基本的
⾓度来说，什么是梦？我不是问你梦的寓意或预⽰什么，我是问你梦
的定义是什么？性质是什么？如果我们认为梦产⽣在头⾻以内，那么
它们不是由原⼦和分⼦组成的，因为不可能有这么多的空间让梦中的
事⼀⼀发⽣。梦中的体验和我们在现实中体验的空间⼤⼩是⼀样的。
梦能产⽣的唯⼀原因是梦是⼀种能量结构，因为能量可以以任何⼤⼩
或空间形式存在，这样也不占空间。
now, if it hasn't already occurred to you, there's something here that's really
profound. if the memories, distinctions, and beliefs we've acquired as a
result of our encounters with the external environment represent what we've
learned about that environment and how it works; and if these memories,
distinctions, and beliefs exist in our mental environment as energy; and if
energy doesn't take up any space; then it also could be said that we have an
unlimited capacity for learning. well, not only do i think it could be said, i'm
saying it.
如果你不明⽩，那么还有其它有深刻含义的事来说明。如果记忆、特
征和信念代表了我们对外部环境的认知，并在我们的思想环境中以能
量的形式存在；如果能量不占有空间，那么可以说我们的学习能⼒是
⽆穷的。嗯，我这么想，也这么说。
consider the development of human consciousness and what to know to
function effectively compared to just 100 years ago. there is absolutely
nothing to indicate that we don't have an unlimited capacity to learn. the
difference between what we are aware of now and what we can do as a

result of this expanded awareness would boggle the mind of anyone living
100 years ago.
和 100 年前相⽐，考虑⼀下⼈类意识的发展和学习效率的发展。事实说
明我们的学习能⼒是⽆穷的。我们现在的认知和能⼒会让 100 年前的⼈
吃惊的。
perception and learning
认知和学习
however, we must be careful not to equate storage capacity with learning
capacity. learning, and becoming aware of what is available to be learned, is
not just a function of storage capacity. if it were, then what would stop us
from knowing everything? and if we knew everything, then what would
stop us from perceiving every possible characteristic, property, or trait of
everything that is expressing itself in any given moment? what stops us
now?
然⽽，不能把储存能⼒和学习能⼒等同起来。学习，并知道要学什么
不仅仅是储存能⼒的⼀部分。如果是的，那么是什么在阻⽌我们学习
所有的知识？如果我们知道所有的知识，那么是什么阻⽌我们认知到
所有可能的特点、性质或特⾊？是什么在阻⽌我们？
these questions get to the very heart of why you have to understand that
mental components like memories, distinctions, and beliefs exist as energy.
anything that is energy has the potential to act as a force expressing its
form, and that is exactly what our memories, distinctions and beliefs do.
they act as a force on our senses from the inside, expressing their form and
content, and, in the process of doing so, they have a profoundly limiting
effect on the information we perceive in any given moment, making much
of the information that is available from the environment's perspective, and
the possibilities inherent within that information, literally invisible.

这些问题很深⼊地说明了为什么你要把记忆、辨别和信念等思想构成
开成是能量的存在。任何是能量的东⻄都有可能通过⼒量的形式表达
⾃⼰，就像记忆、特征和信念⼀样。我们在内部思考，通过⾏动来表
达，在任何时刻，它们会对我们的认知产⽣影响，让很多信息和概率
变得渺茫。
i am saying here that, in any given moment the environment is generating
an enormous amount of information about its properties, characteristics, and
traits. some of that information is beyond the physiological range of our
senses. for example, our eyes can't see every wavelength of light nor can
our ears hear every frequency of sound the environment produces, so there's
definitely a range of information that is beyond the physiological
capabilities of our senses.
我是说，不管什么时候，环境都会产⽣⼤量关于性质、特征和特点的
信息。有些信息是我们⽆法感觉到的。⽐如，我们的眼睛不能看⻅所
有波段的光线，我们的⼆段不能听⻅所有频率的声⾳，所以有些信息
是我们肯定⽆法感觉到的。
what about the rest of the information the environment is generating about
itself? do we see, hear, taste, smell, or feel through our senses every
possible distinction, trait, and characteristic being senses? absolutely not!
the energy that's inside of us will categorically limit and block our
awareness of much of this information by working through the same
sensory mechanisms the external environment works through.
那么对于环境产⽣的其它信息呢？对于每个特征、特点和特性，是否
我们都能通过看、听、尝、闻等⽅式感觉到呢？绝对不是！和外部环
境的其它感应设备⼀样，我们的内部能量会对极限分类，并阻⽌这些
信息。
now, if you take a moment and think about it, some of what i just said
should be self-evident. for example, there are many ways in which the
external environment can express itself that we don't perceive simply

because we haven't learned about them yet. this is easy to illustrate. think
back to the first time you ever looked at a price chart. what did you see?
exactly what did you perceive? with no previous exposure, i'm sure, like
everyone else, you saw a bunch of lines that had no meaning. now if you're
like most traders, when you look at a price chart you see characteristics,
traits, and behavior patterns that represent the collective actions of all the
traders who participated in those particular trades.
现在，如果你花点时间想想，我说的有些话是不⾔⽽喻的。⽐如，很
多时候，外部环境在表达它们，但是因为我们没有学习，我们并不能
简单地明⽩它们。这个讲起来很简单。想想当你第⼀次看⻅价格图表
时，你看⻅了什么？你具体是怎么理解的？我相信，如果你和其他⼈
⼀样，以前没有⻅过，那么你看⻅的就是⼀些线，没有任何含义。如
果你现在像⼤部分交易者⼀样，当你看价格图表时，你看⻅了特征、
特点和⾏为模式，它们反应了市场中所有交易者的集体⾏为。
initially, the chart represented undifferentiated information. undifferentiated
information usually creates a state of confusion, and that's probably what
you experienced when you first encountered a chart. gradually, however,
you learned to make distinctions about that information, such as trends and
trend lines, consolidations, support and resistance, retracements or
significant relationships between volume, and open interest and price
action, just to name a few. you learned that each of these distinctions in the
market's behavior represented an opportunity to fulfill some personal need,
goal, or desire. each distinction now had a meaning and some relative
degree of significance or importance attached to it.
最初，图表反应的信息没有什么不同。差不多的信息就会让⼈混淆，
当你第⼀次看图表时就会这样。慢慢地，你会解读图表的信息特征，
⽐如趋势、趋势线、突破、⽀撑、压⼒、回调或者是它们和成交量之
间的关系、持仓量和价格波动，我只说了⼀部分。你明⽩了市场⾏为
的任何特征都反应了⼀次机会，这个机会会满⾜某个⼈的需求、⽬标
或欲望。每个特征都有⼀定的意义，有⼀定程度的含义或重要性。

now, i want you to use your imagination and pretend that i just set before
you the very first price chart you ever saw. would there be a difference
between what you see now and what you saw then? absolutely. instead of a
bunch of undifferentiated lines, you would see everything you've learned
about those lines between then and now. in other words, you would see all
the distinctions you've learned to make, as well as all the opportunities
those distinctions represent.
现在请运⽤你的想象⼒，想象我第⼀次给你看价格图表。现在和过去
⽐，会有什么不同吗？绝对有。你所看⻅的线不再是相同的，⽽是你
不断学到的东⻄。换句话说，你看⻅的是你学到的各种特征，这些特
征反应了所有的机会。
yet, everything you can see as you look at that chart now existed then, and,
furthermore, was available to be perceived. what's the difference? the
structured energy that's inside of you now - the knowledge you have gained
- acts as a force on your eyes, causing you to recognize the various
distinctions that you've learned about. since that energy wasn't there the first
time you looked at the chart, all the opportunities that you now see were
there, but at the same time invisible to you. furthermore, unless you've
learned to make every possible distinction based on every possible
relationship between the variables in that chart, what you haven't learned
yet is still invisible.
你现在看⻅的信息，其实过去⼀直存在，是可以被认知的。有什么不
同？你现在拥有的能量 -- 你学到的知识 -- 通过你的眼光⽤⼒量的形式表
达出来，让你认出你所学过的特征。因为你第⼀次看图表时并没有能
量，所有的机会都在那⾥，但是当时你却看不⻅。进⼀步说，如果你
没有把所有的图表特征搞清楚，你还是看不⻅它们。
most of us have no concept of the extent to which we are continually
surrounded by the invisible opportunities inherent in the information we're
exposed to. more often than not, we never learn about these opportunities
and, as a result, they remain invisible. the problem, of course, is that unless
we're in a completely new or unique situation or we're operating out of an

attitude of genuine openness, we won't perceive something that we haven't
learned about yet. to learn about something, we have to be able to
experience it in some way. so what we have here is a closed loop that
prevents us from learning. perceptual closed loops exist in all of us, because
they are natural functions of the way mental energy expresses itself on our
senses.
⼤部分⼈对信息所包含的看不⻅的机会没有任何概念。⼤部分情况下
我们都不知道去学习这些机会，所以也看不⻅机会。问题是，如果我
们不学习，我们⽆法看⻅机会；除⾮我们在新情况，或特殊情况下，
或我们是天才，我们才能看到机会。如果想学习，我们就要去体验。
所以我们在死循环中，没法学到东⻄。我们都有感觉上的死循环，因
为这是感觉⽅⾯的思想能量表达⾃⼰的部分功能。
everyone has heard the expression, "people see what they want to see." i
would put it a little differently: people see what they've learned to see, and
everything else is invisible until they learn how to counteract the energy
that blocks their awareness of whatever is unlearned and waiting to be
discovered.
每个⼈都听说过这句话： " ⼈们只会看⻅他想看⻅的东⻄。 " 我的说法
有点不同：⼈们能看⻅他学过的东⻄，如果他不学习，他就不能看⻅
其它东⻄。
to illustrate this concept and make it even clearer, i am going to give you
another example, one that demonstrates how mental energy can affect how
we perceive and experience the environment in a way that it actually
reverses the cause-and-effect relationship. let's look at a very young child's
first encounter with a dog.
为了说明这个概念，为了更清楚地说明，我再举个例⼦，这个例⼦说
明了思想能量是如何影响认知和体验，并完全逆转了因果关系。我们
来看看⼩孩第⼀次遇到狗的情况。

because it's a first-time experience, the child's mental environment is a
clean slate, so to speak, with respect to dogs. he won't have any memories
and certainly no distinctions about a dog's nature. therefore, up to the
moment of his first encounter, from the child's perspective, dogs don't exist.
of course, from the environment's perspective, dogs do exist and they have
the potential to act as a force on the child's senses to create an experience.
in other words, dogs expressing their nature can act as a cause to produce an
effect inside the child's mental environment.
因为是第⼀次遇到狗，⼩孩的思想环境是空⽩的，关于狗这⽅⾯。他
对狗没有记忆，也不知道有什么特征。因此，第⼀次遇到狗时，从⼩
孩的⾓度来说，狗并不存在。当然了，从环境的⾓度来说，狗是存在
的，它有可能给⼩孩的感觉产⽣作⽤，并形成体验。换句话说，狗的
表达会给⼩孩的思想环境产⽣影响。
what kind of effect are dogs capable of producing? well, dogs have a range
of expression. by range of expression i mean dogs can behave in a number
of ways toward humans. they can be friendly, loving, protective, and fun to
play with; or they can be hostile, mean, and dangerous - just to name a few
of the many behaviors they're capable of. all of these traits can be observed,
experienced, and learned about. when the child sees the dog for the first
time, there is absolutely nothing in his mental environment to tell him what
he is dealing with. unfamiliar, unknown, and unclassified environmental
information can generate a sense of curiosity - when we want to find out
more about what we're experiencing - or it can generate a state of
confusion, which can easily turn to fear if we can't place the information
into an understandable or meaningful organizational framework or context.
狗可能会产⽣什么样的影响？嗯，狗有很多种表达。我是说狗对⼈的
表达有很多种。它们可以友好、可爱、保护和玩耍；或者是凶狠、恶
意和危险 -- 我只是说了狗的众多表达中的⼏个⽅⾯。我们可以看到、
体验到并学习到这些特点。当⼩孩第⼀次看⻅狗，他的思想环境中没
有任何东⻄让他了解现状。不熟悉、不了解和不明的环境信息会产⽣
好奇的感觉 -- 我们想对我们体验的东⻄有更多的了解 -- 或者是产⽣了混

乱，如果我们不能理解或有效地组织这些信息，这些信息会让我们产
⽣恐惧⼼理。
in our example, the child's sense of curiosity kicks in and he rushes to the
dog to get more sensory experience. notice how children are literally
compelled to thrust themselves into a situation they know nothing about.
however, in this example, the environmental forces at hand do not react
favorably to the child's advances. the dog the child is interested in is either
inherently mean or having a bad day. in any case, as soon as the child gets
close enough, the dog bites him. the attack is so severe that the dog has to
be pulled off the child.
在例⼦中，⼩孩产⽣了好奇感，他向狗冲去，想要更多的体验。请注
意，⼩孩是如何把⾃⼰扔进未知的世界的。然⽽，在这个例⼦中，环
境的⼒量和⼩孩的想法不同。⼩孩对狗感兴趣，但狗可能很凶恶或⼼
情不好。很多时候，当⼩孩⾛进狗时，狗就咬他。狗的攻击太厉害
了，⼈们要把它和⼩孩扯开。
this kind of unfortunate experience is certainly not typical, but it's not that
uncommon either. i chose it for two reasons: first, most people can relate to
it in some way either from their own direct experience or through the
experience of someone they know. second, as we analyze the underlying
dynamics of this experience from an energy perspective, we're going to
learn about 1) how our minds are designed to think, 2) process information,
3) how these processes affect what we experience and 4) our ability to
recognize new possibilities. i know this may seem like a lot of insight from
just one example, but the principles involved apply to the dynamics beneath
virtually all learning.
这种不幸的体验肯定不算典型，但也不少⻅。我选择这个例⼦有两个
原因：⾸先，⼤部分⼈都可以把⾃⾝或别⼈的体验和这个例⼦联系起
来。第⼆，当我们从能量的⾓度来分析这个潜在的动⼒时，我们会了
解到 1 ）我们的思想是如何思考的， 2 ）如何处理信息， 3 ）这些过程对
我们的体验有什么影响， 4 ）我们看出新机会的能⼒。我知道，从⼀个

例⼦⾥⾯总结出这么多的结论，似乎多了点，但是这些原则在所有的
学习过程中都会存在。
as a result of being physically and emotionally traumatized, the little boy in
our example now has a memory and one distinction about the way dogs can
express themselves. if the boy's ability to remember his experiences is
normal, he can store this incident in a way that represents all of the senses
the experience had an impact on: for example the attack can be stored as
mental images based on what he saw, as well as mental sounds representing
what he heard, and so on. memories representing the other three senses will
work the same way.
这个例⼦中的⼩孩⾝⼼受到了创伤，他已经记住了狗表达⾃⼰的⽅式
特征。如果⼩孩的记忆能⼒是正常的，他会把这次体验储存起来，以
记录他所有的感觉：⽐如这次被攻击会以他看⻅的图像⽅式被记录起
来，会以听⻅的⽅式被记录，等等。其它⽅⾯的感觉也是同理。
however, the kind of sensory data in his memory is not as important as the
kind of energy the sensory data represents. we basically have two kinds of
mental energy: positively charged energy, which we call love, confidence,
happiness, joy, satisfaction, excitement, and enthusiasm, to name a few of
the pleasant ways we can feel; and negatively charged energy, representing
fear, terror, dissatisfaction, betrayal, regret, anger, confusion, anxiety, stress,
and frustration, all representing what is commonly referred to as emotional
pain.
然⽽，他记忆中的感官数据没有它们所反应的能量重要。我们有两种
基本的思想能量：积极能⼒，我们叫做爱、⾃信、幸福、欢乐、满
⾜、激动和激情，我只说了⼏个我们感觉快乐的；还有消极的能量，
有害怕、恐惧、不满、背叛、后悔、愤怒、混论、焦急、压⼒和挫
折，这些通常叫做精神痛苦。
because the boy's first experience with a dog was intensely painful, we can
assume that regardless of what senses were affected, all of his memories of
this experience will be in painful, unpleasant feeling, negative energy. now,

what effect will this negatively charged mental energy have on his
perception and behavior if and when he encounters another dog? the answer
is so obvious that it may seem ridiculous even to ask, but the underlying
implications are not obvious, so bear with me. clearly, the moment he
comes into contact with another dog, he will experience fear.
因为⼩孩和狗的第⼀次体验很痛苦，我们认为不管是哪个感官的感受
被影响了，他所有的记忆都是痛苦的、不快乐的、消极的能量。当他
再次遇到狗时，这样的消极能量会如何影响他的认知和⾏为呢？答案
很明显，似乎这个问题都是荒谬的，但是我认为潜在的含义并不明
显。很明显，当他遇到另⼀只狗时，他会害怕。
notice that i used the word "another" to describe the next dog he has any
contact with. what i want to point out is that any dog can cause the boy to
feel fear, not just the one that actually attacked him. it won't make a bit of
difference if the next dog he comes into contact with is the friendliest dog in
the world, one whose nature is only to express playfulness and love. the
child will still be afraid, and furthermore, his fear could quickly turn to
unrestrained terror especially if the second dog (seeing a child and wanting
to play) attempts to approach him.
请注意我⽤了 " 另⼀只 " 以描述下⼀只他会遇到的狗。我想指出，任何
⼀只狗都会让这个孩⼦感到害怕，并不⼀定是攻击他的那只狗。就算
他下次遇到的狗是全世界最温顺的、适合玩耍的、可爱的狗也没⽤。
这个⼩孩还会害怕，更严重的是，当第⼆只狗（看⻅⼩孩，想和他
玩）准备接近他时，他的害怕变成了特别恐惧。
each of us has at one time or another witnessed a situation in which
someone was experiencing fear, when from our perspective there wasn't the
least bit of danger or threat. although we may not have said it, we probably
thought to ourselves that this person was being irrational. if we tried to
point out why there was no need to be afraid, we probably found that our
words had little, if any, impact.

我们都⻅过这样的事，虽然根本没有什么危险，但是别⼈却感到害
怕。虽然我们⾃⼰没说出来，但我们内⼼觉得这个⼈不够理性。如果
我们指出来为什么不必害怕，我们可能会发现我们的话语没有任何效
果。
we could easily think the same thing about the boy in our example, that he
is just being irrational, because it's clear from our perspective that other
possibilities exist than the one his mind has focused on. but is his fear any
less rational than, let's say, your fear (or hesitation) about putting on the
next trade, when your last trade was a loser? using the same logic, a top
trader would say that your fear is irrational because this "now moment"
opportunity has absolutely nothing to do with your last trade. each trade is
simply an edge with a probable outcome, and statistically independent of
every other trade. if you believe otherwise, then i can see why you're afraid;
but i can assure you that your fears are completely unfounded.
对于本例中的⼩孩，我们也可以这么想，他不够理性，因为从我们的
⾓度来看，有很多概率，⽽不仅仅是⼩孩想的那样。但是，当你交易
失败，你再次交易时的恐惧⽐⼩孩少吗？从这个⾓度来说，优秀的交
易者会说你的恐惧也不够理性，因为这次交易和你上次失败的交易并
没有任何关系。
perception and risk
认知和⻛险
as you can see, one person's perception of risk can easily be perceived as
irrational thinking by another. risk is relative, but to the person who
perceives it in the moment, it seems absolute and beyond question. when
the child encountered his first dog, he was bubbling with excitement and
curiosity. what is it about the way our minds think and process information
that could automatically flip the boy into a state of fear the next time he
encounters a dog, even if it's months or years later? if we look at fear as a
natural mechanism warning us of threatening conditions, then what is it
about the way our minds function that would automatically tell the boy that

the next encounter with a dog is something to be afraid of? what happened
to the boy's natural sense of curiosity? there is surely more to learn about
the nature of dogs than this one experience has taught him, especially in
light of the fact that our minds seem to have an unlimited capacity for
learning. and why would it be virtually impossible to talk the boy out of his
fear?
正如你所⻅，⼀个⼈认为有⻛险，另⼀个⼈会觉得不够理性。⻛险是
相对的，但对于认为有⻛险的⼈来说，⻛险是绝对存在的。当⼩孩第
⼀次遇到狗时，他感到激动和好奇。是什么东⻄让⼏个⽉或⼏年后，
当这个⼩孩第⼆次遇到狗时，他变得害怕了？如果我们把害怕作为对
危险环境的⾃动反应，那么是什么让⼩孩第⼆次遇到狗时会⾃动害
怕？⼩孩天⽣的好奇⼼有什么变化？相⽐之下，研究狗的反应⽐研究
⼩孩的空间要⼤，尤其是考虑到我们有⽆限的学习潜能。为什么让⼩
孩不再害怕是不可能的？
the power of association
联想的⼒量
as complex as these questions may seem at first glance, most of them can be
answered quite easily. i'm sure many of you already know the answer: our
minds have an inherent design characteristic that causes us to associate and
link anything that exists in the external environment that is similar in
quality, characteristics, properties, or traits to anything that already exists in
our mental environment as a memory or distinction. in other words, in the
example of the child being afraid of dogs, the second dog or any other dog
he encounters thereafter, doesn't have to be the dog that attacked in order
for him to experience emotional pain. there just has to be enough of a
likeness or similarity for his mind to make a connection between the two.
这些问题第⼀眼看上去复杂，⼤部分都能简单地回答。我肯定⼤部分
⼈都知道答案：对于我们思想中已经存在的特质、特点、性质和特
点，我们的思想天⽣就会把它们和外部环境联系起来。换句话说，关

于这个怕狗的⼩孩，他碰到的第⼆只狗或其它狗不⼀定会让它痛苦。
只是他思想⾥⾯的相似性会让他觉得害怕。
this natural tendency for our minds to associate is an unconscious mental
function that occurs automatically. it's not something we have to think about
or make a decision about. an unconscious mental function would be
analogous to an involuntary physical function such as a heartbeat. just as we
don't have to consciously think about the process of making our hearts beat,
we don't have to think about linking experiences and our feelings about
them. its simply a natural function of the way our minds process
information, and, like a heartbeat, it's a function that has a profound effect
on the way we experience our lives.
这种联想的⽅式是我们⼤脑的⾃动的潜意识⾏为。不是我们思考或做
决定的。潜意识功能和⼼跳类似，不是我们决定的。就像我们不⽤决
定⾃⼰的⼼跳⼀样，我们⾃然地把体验和感觉联系起来。这是思想处
理信息的⾃然⽅式，就像⼼跳⼀样，这个功能对我们的⽣活有重⼤的
影响。
i'd like you to try and visualize the two-way flow of energy that reverses the
cause-and-effect relationship that will make it difficult (if not impossible)
for the boy to perceive any other possibilities than the one that's in his mind.
to help you, i'm going to break this process down into its smallest parts, and
go through what happens step by step, all of this may seem a bit abstract,
but understanding this process plays a big part in unlocking your potential
to achieve consistent success as a big trader.
我想让你明⽩，能量的两种⽅式逆转了因果关系，所以让⼩孩看到其
它概率是很困难的。为了帮助你，我想把这个过程分解为更⼩的过
程，⼀步⼀步地分析，所有这些看起来很深奥，但是要成为持续⼀致
优秀的交易者，就必须理解这个过程。
first, let's get right down to the basics. there's structured energy on the
outside of the boy and structured energy on the inside of the boy. the
outside energy is positively charged in the form of a friendly dog that wants

to express itself by playing. the inside energy is a negatively charged
memory in the form of mental images and sounds that represent the boy's
first experience with a dog.
⾸先，我们谈基础知识。在⼩孩的外部和内部都有能量。外部的能量
是积极的，是关于⼀只友好的想玩耍的狗的能量。内部能量是消极
的，是关于⼩孩第⼀次和狗相遇的体验记忆。
both the inside and the outside energy have the potential to make
themselves felt on the boy's senses and, as a result, create two different
kinds of situations for him to experience. the outside energy has the
potential to act as a force on the boy in a way that he could find very
enjoyable. this particular dog expresses behavior characteristics like
playfulness, friendliness, and even love. but keep in mind that these are
characteristics that the child still has not experienced in a dog, so from his
perspective they don't exist. just as in the price chart example i presented
earlier, the child won't be able to perceive what he hasn't yet learned about,
unless he is in a state of mind that is conducive to learning.
⼩孩有可能感受到这两种能量，结果就是有两种可以体验的环境。外
部能量有可能让⼩孩觉得快乐。这只特别的狗可以表达出好玩、友
好、甚⾄是爱。但是请记住，⼩孩还没有体验到这样的特点，所以从
他的⾓度来说，这种感觉并不存在。就像我之前说的价格图表，对于
没有学过的东⻄，⼩孩是没有认知的，除⾮他的思想善于学习。
the inside energy also has potential and is just waiting, so to speak, to
express itself. but it will act on the boy's eyes and ears in a way that causes
him to feel threatened. this in turn will create an experience of emotional
pain, fear, and possibly even terror.
内在的能量也有可能表达⾃⼰。但是要让⼩孩看⻅，听⻅才会让他感
到害怕。这样就会导致痛苦、害怕、甚⾄是恐惧。
from the way i've set this up, it may seem as if the boy has a choice between
experiencing fun or experiencing fear, but that's really not the case, at least

not in the moment. of the two possibilities that exist in this situation, he will
undoubtedly experience the pain and fear, instead of the fun. this is true for
several reasons.
从我解说的⾓度来看，似乎⼩孩有两个选择，去体验快乐或者恐惧，
但不是这个意思，⾄少⽬前不是。在⽬前状况下存在的两种概率，他
肯定会去体验痛苦和恐惧，⽽不是快乐。有⼏个原因。
first, as i've already indicated, our minds are wired to automatically and
instantaneously associate and link information that has similar
characteristics, properties, and traits. what's outside of the child in the form
of a dog, looks and sounds similar to the one that's in his mind. however,
the degree of similarity that is necessary for his mind to link the two is an
unknown variable, meaning i don't know the mental mechanism that
determines how much or how little similarity is required for our minds to
associate and link two or more sets of information. since everyone's mind
functions in a similar way, but, at the same time is unique, i would assume
there is a range of tolerance for similarity or dissimilarity and each of us has
a unique capacity somewhere within the range.
⾸先，我已经说了，对于相似的特征、特质和特点，我们的思想⾃动
地把它们联系起来。对⼩孩来说，狗和他思想⾥的⼀样，⽆论是⻓相
还是叫声。然⽽，到底有多像，我不知道，也就是说，我并不知道我
们的思想联系两个或更多信息的程度是多强，它对相似性有多⾼的要
求。每个⼈的思想功能差不多，虽然都是独特的，我相信每个⼈对相
似性的定义不同，应该有⼀个范围。
here's what we do know: as this next dog comes into contact with the boy's
eyes or ears, if there is enough similarity between the way it looks or
sounds and the dog that's embedded in his memory, then his mind will
automatically connect the two. this connection, in turn, will cause the
negatively charged energy in his memory to be released throughout his
body, causing him to be overcome with a very uncomfortable sense of
foreboding or terror. the degree of discomfort or emotional pain that he

experiences will be equivalent to the degree of trauma that he suffered as a
result of his first encounter with a dog.
这是我知道的：当下⼀只狗和⼩孩接触时，如果狗的⻓相和叫声和⼩
孩记忆⾥的⾜够相似，那么⼩孩的思想就会⾃动联系起来。这种联系
会让他的消极能量彻底释放，让他和感觉中的灾祸或恐惧做⽃争。根
据他第⼀次和狗相遇时所遭受的创伤程度，他们不安和精神痛苦的程
度也不同。
what happens next is what psychologists call a projection. i'm going to refer
to it simply as another instantaneous association that makes the reality of
the situation from the boy's perspective seem like the absolute,
unquestionable truth. the boy's body is now filled with negatively charged
energy. at the same time, he is in sensory contact with the dog. next, his
mind associates whatever sensory information his eyes or ears perceive
with the painful energy he's experiencing inside himself, which makes it
seem as if the source of his pain and fear is the dog he is seeing or hearing
in that moment.
后⾯要发⽣的事被⼼理医⽣称为预想。我称为⾃发的联想，⼩孩会⽴
刻认为现实是绝对的，⽏庸置疑的。此时，⼩孩的⾝体充满了消极的
能量。同时，他感觉到了狗。然后，他的思想把他看⻅的或听⻅的和
内⼼的恐惧能量联系在⼀起，让他以为就是他看⻅的或听⻅的狗让他
感觉痛苦和害怕。
psychologists call the dynamics of what i just described a projection
because, in a sense, the boy is projecting the pain he is experiencing in the
moment onto the dog. that painful energy then gets reflected back to him, so
that he perceives a dog that is threatening, painful, and dangerous. this
process makes the second dog identical in character, properties, and traits to
the one that is in the boy's memory bank, even though the information the
second dog is generating about its behavior is not identical, or even similar,
to the behavior of the dog that actually attacked the boy.

⼼理医⽣把我描述的称为预想，因为，从某种⾓度来说，这个⼩孩因
为狗⽽假想出⾃⼰的痛苦体验。他⾝上的痛苦能量再次出现，这样他
就认为狗是有威胁的、令⼈痛苦的、危险的。这样，即使第⼆只狗和
之前攻击⼩孩的狗没有什么相似之处，这个⼩孩的记忆也会认为是相
同的。
since the two dogs, the one in the boy's mind and the one outside of the
boy's mind, feel exactly the same, it's extremely unlikely the boy will be
able to make any type of distinctions in the second dog's behavior that
would suggest to him that it is any different than the one in his mind. so,
instead of perceiving this next encounter with a dog as an opportunity to
experience something new about the nature of dogs, he perceives a
threatening and dangerous dog.
因为⼩孩思想中的狗和外部的狗感觉是⼀样的，这个⼩孩就不会认为
它们有什么不同。所以，⼩孩不会认为第⼆只狗会有什么新的表达，
他会认为第⼆只狗有威胁，是危险的。
now, if you think about it for a moment, what is it about this process that
would indicate to the boy that his experience of the situation was not the
absolute, unquestionable truth? certainly the pain and fear that he
experienced in his body was the absolute truth.
现在，如果你想想，如果⼩孩感觉到的状况并不是绝对真实的，那会
如何？他内⼼的痛苦和恐惧肯定是真实的。
but what about the possibilities that he perceived? were they true? from our
perspective, they weren't. however, from the boy's perspective, how could
they be anything but the true reality of the situation? what alternatives did
he have? first, he can't perceive possibilities that he hasn't learned about yet.
and it is extremely difficult to learn anything new if you're afraid, because,
as you already well know, fear is a very debilitating form of energy. it
causes us to withdraw, to get ready to protect ourselves, to run, and to
narrow our focus of attention - all of which makes it very difficult, if not

impossible, to open ourselves in a way that allows us to learn something
new.
但是他认为的概率如何？是真的吗？从我们的⾓度来说，不是真的。
然⽽，从⼩孩的⾓度来说，为何它们可以是任何东⻄，就不能是真实
的呢？他的选择是什么？⾸先，他不能认知到他还没有学到的东⻄，
因为你知道，恐惧是⼀种很虚弱的能量。它让我们退缩，保护我们⾃
⼰，逃跑，聚焦 -- 所有的这些都让我们很难对新事物敞开胸怀。
second, as i have already indicated, as far as die boy is concerned, the dog
is the source of his pain, and in a sense this is true. the second dog did cause
him to tap into the pain that was already in his mind, but it was not the true
source of that pain. this was a positively charged dog that got connected to
the boy's negatively charged energy by an automatic, involuntary mental
process, functioning at speeds faster than it takes to blink an eye (a process
that the boy has absolutely no awareness of). so as far as he's concerned,
why would he be afraid if what he perceived about the dog wasn't the
absolute truth?
第⼆，正如我所说，只要这个⼩孩担⼼，狗就是痛苦的原因，⽽且是
事实。第⼆只狗会让他感到痛苦，但这不是痛苦的真正原因。积极的
狗和消极的⼩孩是⾃动相遇的，思想的变化过程⾮常快，⽐眨眼还快
（⼩孩⾃⼰都不知道）。如果他认知的狗不是真实的，那么为什么他
要怕呢？
as you can see, it wouldn't make any difference how the dog was acting, or
what someone might say to the contrary about why the boy shouldn't be
afraid, because he will perceive whatever information the dog is generating
about itself (regardless of how positive) from a negative perspective. he will
not have the slightest notion that his experience of pain, fear, and terror was
completely self-generated.
正如你所⻅，不管狗如何表达，或不管别⼈如何说这只狗不可怕，这
都没有作⽤，因为这个⼩孩智慧从消极的⾓度来解读任何信息（不管

这只狗多么积极）。他根本不知道⾃⼰的痛苦、害怕和恐惧都是⾃⼰
产⽣的。
now, if it's possible for the boy to self-generate his own pain and terror and,
at the same time, be firmly convinced that his negative experience was
coming from the environment, is it also possible for traders to self-generate
their own experiences of fear and emotional pain as they interact with
market information and be thoroughly convinced that their pain and fear
was completely justified by the circumstances? the underlining
psychological dynamics work in exactly the same way.
如果⼩孩可以⾃⼰产⽣痛苦和恐惧，同时坚信他的消极体验来⾃外部
环境，那么是不是有可能交易者的痛苦和恐惧也是来⾃外部环境呢？
他们⼼理动⼒的原理是完全⼀样的。
one of your basic objectives as a trader is to perceive the opportunities
available, not the threat of pain. to learn how to stay focused on the
opportunities, you need to know and understand in no uncertain terms the
source of the threat. it's not the market. the market generates information
about its potential to move from a neutral perspective. at the same time, it
provides you (the observer) with an unending stream of opportunities to do
something on your own behalf. if what you perceive at any given moment
causes you to feel fear, ask yourself this question: is the information
inherently threatening, or are you simply experiencing the effect of your
own state of mind reflected back to you (as in the above illustration)?
作为交易者，你的⼀个基本⽬标是认知到机会，不是痛苦的威胁。为
了学习如何关注于机会，你需要知道并了解威胁的根源。它不是市
场。市场发出的信息是中性的，表明它可能要如何变化。同时，它给
你（观察着）提供了⼤量的机会，让你⾃⼰做决定。如果你总是觉得
害怕，问问你⾃⼰：这个信息真的有威胁吗，你是不是因为过去的体
验⽽觉得有危险（正如上⽂所说）？
i know this is a difficult concept to accept, so i'll give you another example
to illustrate the point. let's set up a scenario, where your last two or three

trades were losers. you are watching the market, and the variables you use
to indicate that an opportunity exists are now present. instead of
immediately executing the trade, you hesitate. the trade feels very risky, so
risky, in fact, that you start questioning whether this is "really" a signal. as a
result, you start gathering information to support why this trade probably
won't work. this is information you normally wouldn't consider or pay
attention to, and it's certainly not information that is part of your trading
methodology.
我知道这个概念很难理解，所以我想⽤另⼀个例⼦来说明。我们设置
⼀个场景，假如你最后 2 ， 3 次的交易失败。你看着市场，你认为的机
会出现了。你不会⽴刻交易，你会犹豫。这笔交易感觉有⻛险，⻛险
很⼤，实际上，你开始怀疑这是不是 " 真 " 的信号。结果是，你开始收
集信息，以说明这笔交易不会有结果。平时，你不会关⼼和注意这样
的信息，这样的信息也不属于你的交易系统。
in the meantime, the market is moving. unfortunately, it is moving away
from your original entry point, the point at which you would have gotten
into the trade if you hadn't hesitated. now you are conflicted, because you
still want to get in; the thought of missing a winning trade is painful. at the
same time, as the market moves away from your entry point, the dollar
value of the risk to participate increases. the tug of war inside your mind
intensifies. you don't want to miss out, but you don't want to get whipsawed
either. in the end, you do nothing, because you are paralyzed by the conflict.
you justify your state of immobility by telling yourself that it's just too risky
to chase the market, while you agonize over every tic the market moves in
the direction of what would have been a nice winning trade.
同时，市场在波动。不幸地，市场离你的进场点远去，如果你不犹
豫，你是应该交易的。现在你很⽭盾，因为你还想进场，错过交易也
是痛苦的。同时，当市场离你的进场点越来越远时，此时交易的⻛险
也增⼤了。你思想的⽃争加剧了。你不想错过交易，但你也不想被
洗。最终你什么也没做，因为你被⽭盾的思想折磨透了。你安慰⾃⼰
说，追⾼太危险了，同时，当市场离你远去时，你每⼀秒都很痛苦。

if this scenario sounds familiar, i want you to ask yourself whether, at the
moment you hesitated, were you perceiving what the market was making
available, or perceiving what was in your mind reflected back to you? the
market gave you a signal. but you didn't perceive the signal from an
objective or positive perspective. you didn't see it as an opportunity to
experience the positive feeling you would get from winning or making
money, but that's exactly what the market was making available to you.
如果这个情景听起来很熟悉，我想然你问问⾃⼰，在你犹豫的时候，
你在想象市场的可能的情况吗？你的思想是如何反应的？市场给了你
信号。但你没有从客观或积极的⾓度来解读信号。市场给了你机会，
你没有抓住机会，以从赚钱中找到积极的感觉。
think about this for a moment: if i change the scenario so that your last two
or three trades were winners instead of losers, would you have perceived
the signal any differently? would you have perceived it more as an
opportunity to win than you did in the first scenario? if you were coming off
three winners in a row, would you have hesitated to put that trade on? very
unlikely! in fact, if you're like most traders, you probably would have been
giving very strong consideration to loading up (putting on a position much
larger than your normal size).
想想吧：如果我改变这个设想，让你最有 2 ， 3 次的交易是赚钱的，你
会从另外⼀个⾓度来解读这个信号吗？你是不是觉得更有机会赢？如
果你连续 3 次赚钱，你这次会不会犹豫？很不同！实际上，你和⼤多数
交易者⼀样，你有强烈的愿望去交易（⽐平时的仓位还要⼤很多）。
in each situation, the market generated the same signal. but your state of
mind was negative and fear-based in the first scenario, and that caused you
to focus on the possibility of failure, which in turn caused you to hesitate. in
the second scenario, you hardly perceived any risk at all. you may even
have thought the market was making a dream come true. that, in turn,
would make it easy, if not compelling, to financially overcommit yourself.

每次，市场都产⽣了⼀样的信号。在第⼀个场景中，你思想消极，害
怕，导致你担⼼失败，从⽽犹豫不决。在第⼆个场景中，你根本看不
⻅⻛险。你甚⾄以为市场可以让你美梦成真。因此你觉得简单，就会
建⽴过⼤的仓位。
if you can accept the fact that the market doesn't generate positively or
negatively charged information as an inherent characteristic of the way it
expresses itself, then the only other way information can take on a positive
or negative charge is in your mind, and that is a function of the way the
information is processed. in other words, the market doesn't cause you to
focus on failure and pain, or on winning and pleasure. what causes the
information to take on a positive or negative quality is the same
unconscious mental process that caused the boy to perceive the second dog
as threatening and dangerous, when all the dog was offering was
playfulness and friendship.
如果你能接受这样的事实，那就是市场既不会产⽣积极的信息，也不
会产⽣消极的信息，它只是⾃然地表达⾃⼰，那么只有你的思想能决
定信息是积极的，还是消极的，这是处理信息的过程。换句话说，市
场没有叫你担⼼失败和痛苦，也没有叫你关注赢和快乐。是同样的下
意识给信息添加了积极或消极的性质，从⽽导致⼩孩以为第⼆只狗是
可怕和危险的，⽽其它狗是可爱的，友好的。
our minds constantly associate what's outside of us (information) with
something that's already in our mind (what we know), making it seem as if
the outside circumstances and the memory, distinction, or belief these
circumstances are associated with are exactly the same. as a result, in the
first scenario, if you were coming off two or three losing trades, the next
signal the market gives you that an opportunity was present will feel overly
risky. your mind is automatically and unconsciously linking the "now
moment" with your most recent trading experiences. the link taps you into
the pain of losing, creating a fearful state of mind and causing you to
perceive the information you're exposed to in that moment from a negative
perspective. it seems as if the market is expressing threatening information,
so, of course, your hesitation is justified.

我们的思想总是把外界（信息）和我们内在（我们知道的）联系在⼀
起，从⽽让我们以为外部环境和记忆、特征或信念都是⼀样，互相联
系的。结果就是，在第⼀种情况下，如果你连续亏损了 2 ， 3 次，市场
提供的下⼀次信号会被你看做⾮常有⻛险。你的思想⾃动地，下意识
地把 " 现在 " 和过去的交易联系起来。这种联系让你害怕亏损，产⽣了
害怕的思想，导致你把信息看成是消极的。看起来市场的信息是有威
胁的，当然，你的犹豫就是合理的了。
in the second scenario, the same process causes you to perceive the
situation from an overly positive perspective, because you are coming off
three winners in a row. the association between the "now moment" and the
elation of the last three trades creates an overly positive or euphoric state of
mind, making it seem as if the market is offering you a riskless opportunity.
of course, this justifies overcommitting yourself.
在第⼆种情况下，同样的过程却让你过分积极，因为你连续赚了 3 次。
把 " 现在 " 和前⾯ 3 次赚钱的交易联系起来，就会过分积极，情绪⾼涨，
好像市场提供了没有⻛险的机会。当然了，仓位过⼤也是合理的。
in chapter 1, i said that many of the mental patterns that cause traders to
lose and make errors are so self-evident and deeply ingrained that it would
never occur to us that the reason we aren't consistently successful is because
of the way we think. understanding, becoming consciously aware of, and
then learning how to circumvent the mind's natural propensity to associate
is a big part of achieving that consistency. developing and maintaining a
state of mind that perceives the opportunity flow of the market, without the
threat of pain or the problems caused by overconfidence, will require that
you take conscious control of the association process.
在第 01 章，我说过分⾃信会让交易者产⽣很多亏损和犯错的思想⽅
式，我们⾃⼰都没想到我们不能持续⼀致成功的原因是我们的想法。
要想实现持续⼀致地赚钱，就要明⽩，意识到如何刻意改变思想中的
⾃然倾向。为了形成和发展解读市场机会的思想，不受痛苦的危险，
不受过度⾃信的影响，这需要你控制好联想这个过程。