Chapter 6 the market's perspective
第  06 章  市场的⾓度
for the most part, a typical traders perception of the risk in any given
trading situation is a function of the outcome of his most recent two or three
trades (depending on the individual). the best traders, on the other hand, are
not impacted (either negatively or too positively) by the outcomes of their
last or even their last several trades. so their perception of the risk of any
given trading situation is not affected by this personal, psychological
variable. there's a huge psychological gap here that might lead you to
believe that the best traders have inherent design qualities in their minds
that account for this gap, but i can assure you this is not the case.
⼤部分情况下，典型的交易者对⻛险的解读取决与他前⾯ 2 ， 3 次的交
易（不同的⼈，情况不同）。然⽽，最优秀的交易者不会受他最有⼀
次或⼏次交易结果的影响（不管是积极的，还是消极的）。所以，不
管情况如何，他们不会因为⼈不同，⼼理不同，⽽影响他们如何解读
⻛险。
every trader i've worked with over the last 18 years has had to learn how to
train his mind to stay properly focused in the "now moment opportunity
flow." this is a universal problem, and has to do both with the way our
minds are wired and our common social upbringing (meaning, this
particular trading problem is not person-specific). there are other factors
relating to self-esteem that may also act as obstacles to your consistent
success, but what we are going to discuss now is the most important and
fundamental building block to your success as a trader.
过去 18 年来，我所培训的交易者必须学习如何训练⾃⼰的思想，合理
地关注 " ⽬前的机会 " 。这是⼀个普遍的问题，和我们的思维模式，成
⻓环境（也就是说这个交易问题并不是个⼈所有的）都有关系。其它
和⾃尊相关的因素也是持续⼀致成功的障碍，但我们⽬前要谈的是有
助你成功的最重要的，最基础的东⻄。

the "uncertainty" principle
" 不确定  " 原则
if there is such a thing as a secret to the nature of trading, this is it: at the
very core of one's ability 1) to trade without fear or overconfidence, 2)
perceive what the market is offering from its perspective, 3) stay completely
focused in the "now moment opportunity flow," and 4) spontaneously enter
the "zone," it is a strong virtually unshakeable belief in an uncertain
outcome with an edge in your favor.
如果有交易的秘诀，那就是在努⼒的前提下： 1 ）交易时不害怕，也不
过度⾃信， 2 ）从市场的⾓度来解读市场信息， 3 ）完全关注于 " 现在的
机会 " ， 4 ）⾃然地交易，这是在不确定的环境下对⾃⼰的坚定信念。
the best traders have evolved to the point where they believe, without a
shred of doubt or internal conflict, that "anything can happen." they don't
 just suspect       that anything can happen or give lip service to the idea.
their belief in uncertainty is so powerful that it actually prevents their minds
from associating the "now moment" situation and circumstance with the
outcomes of their most recent trades.
最优秀的交易者已经很成熟了，他们没有怀疑或冲突，他们相信 " 任何
事都有可能发⽣ " 。他们不仅仅相信任何事都有可能发⽣，他们不说空
话。他们⾮常相信不确定性，所以他们不会把 " ⽬前的情况 " 和他们以
前的交易联系起来。
by preventing this association, they are able to keep their minds free of
unrealistic and rigid expectations about how the market will express itself.
instead of generating the kind of unrealistic expectations that more often
than not result in both emotional and financial pain, they have learned to
"make themselves available" to take advantage of whatever opportunities
the market may offer in any given moment.

为了防⽌这种联想，他们不想知道关于市场不现实和死板的预期。这
种不现实的预期⼀般都会导致情绪和财务上的痛苦，他们不愿意这
样，他们学会了 " 把握⾃⼰ " ，当市场有机会了，他们会抓住机会。
"making yourself available" is a perspective from which you understand
that the framework from which you are perceiving information is limited
relative to what's being offered. our minds don't automatically perceive
every opportunity that presents itself in any given moment. (the "boy and
the dog" illustration from chapter 5 is a perfect example of how our own
personal versions of the truth are reflected back to us.)
" 把握⾃⼰ " 是⼀种认知，让你明⽩到，你所认知的信息仅仅来⾃被提
供的信息。我们的思想不会⾃动地在任何时刻把任何机会看做是机会
（第 05 章⼩孩和狗的描述就完美地说明了⼀个⼈对事实的看法如何反
映了⾃⼰）。
this same land of perceptual blindness happens all the time in trading. we
can't perceive the potential for the market to continue to move in a direction
that is already against our position if, for example, we are operating out of a
fear of being wrong. the fear of admitting we are wrong causes us to place
an inordinate amount of significance on information that tells us that we're
right. this happens even if there's ample information to indicate that the
market has in fact established a trend in the opposite direction of our
position. a trending market is a distinction about the market's behavior we
can ordinarily perceive, but this distinction can easily become invisible if
we are operating out of fear. the trend and the opportunity to trade in the
direction of that trend don't become visible until we are out of the trade.
在交易时，这种感知盲点⼀直存在。⽐如，如果我们因为害怕⽽操作
错误，我们不认为市场有可能要向相反的⽅向波动。我们害怕犯错，
所以为了不犯错，对正确的信息倾注了⼤量精⼒。这种事情尤其会发
⽣在我们仓位错误，同时⼤量信息说明市场的趋势和我们的仓位相反
时。我们可以轻松地看出有趋势的市场特征，如果我们操作时害怕，

可能会看不⻅这个特征。当我们没有进⾏交易时，这个趋势和机会都
是明显的。
in addition, there are opportunities that are invisible to us because we
haven't learned to make the distinctions that would allow us to perceive
them. recall our discussion in chapter 5 of the first price chart you ever
looked at. what we haven't learned yet is invisible to us, and remains
invisible until our minds are open to an exchange of energy.
另外，还有其它机会，因为还有⼀些特征，我们没学，所以不知道。
请回想⼀下在第 05 章，我们第⼀次看的价格图表。我们没有学习，所
以暂时看不⻅，当我们的思想交换了能量，我们就能看⻅了。
a perspective from which you make yourself available takes into
consideration both the known and the unknown: for example, you've built a
mental framework that allows you to recognize a set of variables in the
markets behavior that indicates when an opportunity to buy or sell is
present. this is your edge and something you know. however, what you
don't know is exactly how the pattern your variables identify will unfold.
要想看到⼏乎，你需要同时考虑已知的和未知的：⽐如，你已经建⽴
了⼀套思想结构，这样当市场变化时，你就知道买⼊的机会和卖出的
机会。这是你知道的，也是你的优势。然⽽，对于你不知道的，还需
要知道变化如何。
with the perspective of making yourself available, you know that your edge
places the odds of success in your favor, but, at the same time, you
completely accept the fact that you don't know the outcome of any
particular trade. by making yourself available, you consciously open
yourself up to find out what will happen next; instead of giving way to an
automatic mental process that causes you to think you already know.
adopting this perspective leaves your mind free of internal resistance that
can prevent you from perceiving whatever opportunity the market is
making available from its perspective (its truth). your mind is open for an
exchange of energy. not only can you learn something about the market that

you previously didn't know, but you also set up the mental condition most
conducive to entering "the zone."
当你⾃⼰准备好了，你就知道了你的优势，但同时，你完全接受这个
现实，你⽆法知道交易的结果。你准备好了，你下意识地去发现会发
⽣什么；⽽不是⾃然地以为你知道。采⽤这种解读⽅式，可以让你的
思想避免被从内部阻⽌，以免你看不⻅市场的机会（真正的）。你的
思想是开放的，可以接受能量的转换。你不但可以学习你之前不知道
的东⻄，⽽且你的思想环境更容易进⼊ " 区域 " 。
the essence of what it means to be in "the zone" is that your mind and the
market are in sync. as a result, you sense what the market is about to do as
if there is no separation between yourself and the collective consciousness
of everyone else participating in the market. the zone is a mental space
where you are doing more than just reading the collective mind, you are
also in complete harmony with it.
" 区域 " 的准确含义是你的思想和市场同步。结果是，你能感觉到市
场，就好像你和市场⼤众之间没有阻隔。这个区域是思想空间，你不
但要解读市场的思想，你还要和它步调⼀致。
if this sounds a bit strange to you, ask yourself how it is that a flock of birds
or a school of fish can change direction simultaneously. there must be a way
in which they are linked to one another. if it is possible for people to
become linked in the same way, then there will be times when information
from those with whom we are linked can and will bleed through to our
consciousness. traders who have experienced being tapped into the
collective consciousness of the market can anticipate a change in direction
just as a bird in the middle of a flock or a fish in the middle of a school will
turn at the precise moment that all of the others turn.
如果你觉得奇怪，你问问⾃⼰，⼀群⻦或⻥是如何同时改变⽅向的。
它们⼀定有某种联系。如果⼈类也可以这样，那么别⼈的信息也会和

我们的意识融合。有经验的交易者加⼊到市场⼤众中，以期待市场转
向，这和⼀群⻦或⻥在特定时刻⼀起转向是⼀样的。
however, setting up the kind of mental conditions most conducive to
experiencing this seemingly magical synchronicity between you and the
market is no easy task. there are two mental hurdles to overcome. the first is
the focus of this chapter: learning how to keep your mind focused in the
"now moment opportunity flow." in order to experience synchronicity, your
mind has to be open to the market's truth, from its perspective.
然⽽，形成这种思想环境，并让⾃⼰和市场神奇地同步起来是困难
的。需要克服两个思想障碍。第⼀个是本章的焦点：学习如何让⾃⼰
的思想聚焦在 " 现在的机会流。 " 为了实现同步，你的思想必须对市场
开放。
the second hurdle has to do with the division of labor between the two
halves of our brain. the left side of our brain specializes in rational thought,
based on what we already know. the right side specializes in creative
thought. it is capable of tapping into an inspiration, an intuition, a hunch, or
a sense of knowing that usually can't be explained at a rational level. it can't
be explained because if the information is really creative in nature, then it is
something that we wouldn't know at a rational level. by definition, true
creativity brings forth something that didn't previously exist. there's an
inherent conflict between these two modes of thought, that the rational,
logical part will almost always win, unless we take specific steps to train
our minds to accept and trust creative information. without that training, we
will usually find it very difficult to act on our hunches, intuitive impulses,
inspirations, or sense of knowing.
第⼆个障碍是两个脑半球的分⼯不同。左半球根据已知事物做理性思
考。右半球专门做创造性的思考。它会进⼊⼀种灵感、直觉、预感或
⽆法理性思考的状态。因为信息确实有创造性，⽆法解释，不能⽤理
性去解释。根据定义，真正的创造是指产⽣以前没有的东⻄。这两种
思想天⽣有冲突，理性，逻辑部分总是赢，除⾮我们训练⾃⼰的思想

接受并相信创造性的信息。如果没有这种训练，我们很难根据⾃⼰的
预感、直觉、灵感或知觉去⾏动。
acting appropriately on anything requires belief and clarity of intent, which
keeps our minds and senses focused on the purpose at hand. if the source of
our actions is creative in nature, and our rational mind hasn't been properly
trained to trust this source, then at some point in the process of acting on
this information, our rational brain will flood our consciousness with
conflicting and competing thoughts. of course, all of these thoughts will be
sound and reasonable in nature, because they will be coming from what we
already know at a rational level, but they will have the effect of flipping us
out of "the zone" or any other creative state of mind. there are few things in
life more frustrating than recognizing the possibilities evident from a hunch,
intuition, or an inspired idea, and not taking advantage of that potential
because we talked ourselves out of it.
要想对任何事采取有效的⾏动，需要信念和明确的⽬标，我们的思想
和感觉要聚焦在⽬标上。如果我们⾏动的原因是很有创造性的，但是
我们的思想没有接受过培训，不相信这种创造性，那么在我们⾏动的
过程中，思想会给我们的潜意识制造冲突和⽭盾的思想。当然，这些
思想听起来都很有理，因为它们来⾃我们的理性，但是它们会让我们
没有进⼊ " 状态 " ，或者是没有创造性的思想。在⽣活中，不考虑潜在
的优势，⽽通过⾃⼰的直觉、感觉或激动的情绪来判断概率是很折磨
⼈的。
i realize that what i've just said is still much too abstract to implement on a
practical basis. so, i'm going to take you step-by-step through what it means
to be completely focused in the "now moment opportunity flow." my
objective is that by the time you've read this chapter and chapter 7, you will
understand without a shred of doubt why your ultimate success as a trader
cannot be realized until you develop a resolute, unshakeable belief in
uncertainty.

我知道我说的东⻄太深奥了，没有操作性。所以，我准备带你⼀步⼀
步地聚焦于 " 现在的机会流 " 。我的⽬标是，当你阅读了本章和第 07
章，你就会明⽩，只有你绝对地，不动摇地相信了不确定性，你才能
最终成为⼀个成功的交易者。
the first step on the road toward getting your mind and the market in sync is
to understand and completely accept the psychological realities of trading.
this step is where most of the frustrations, disappointments, and
mysteriousness associated with trading begin. very few people who decide
to trade ever take the time or expend the effort to think about what it means
to be a trader. most people who go into trading think that being a trader is
synonymous with being a good market analyst.
要想让思想和市场同步，第⼀步要理解并完全接受交易的⼼理现实。
⼤部分的挫折、失望、和交易的神秘联系都从此开始。极少有⼈花时
间或⽤⼼去想成为交易者的含义是什么。⼤部分⼈认为成为交易者就
是成为⼀个好的市场分析师。
as i have mentioned, this couldn't be further from the truth. good market
analysis can certainly contribute to and play a supporting role in one's
success, but it doesn't deserve the attention and importance most traders
mistakenly attach to it. beneath the market behavior patterns that are so easy
to become fixated on are some very unique psychological characteristics.
it's the nature of these psychological characteristics that determines how
one needs "to be" in order to operate effectively in the market environment.
正如我所说，这和事实有差距。好的分析肯定对⼀个⼈的成功有帮
助，有⽀持作⽤，但和交易者错误地理解的关注和重要性没有关系。
在市场⾏为模式下⾯还有更容易关注的⼼理特点。是这些⼼理特点的
性质决定了⼀个⼈如何做，以在市场环境中有效地操作。
operating effectively in an environment that has qualities, traits, or
characteristics that are different from what we're used to requires making
some adjustments or changes in the way we normally think about things. for
example, if you were to travel to an exotic place with certain objectives or

goals to accomplish, the first thing you would do is familiarize yourself
with the local traditions and customs. by doing so, you would learn about
the various ways in which you would have to adapt in order to function
successfully in that environment.
在有特点、特质或特征的市场有效地操作和我们通常的想法是不同
的。⽐如，如果你要去外地做事，⾸先你要了解外地的⻛俗习惯。只
有这样，你才能通过学习不同的⽅法以适应环境。
traders frequently ignore the fact that they may have to adapt in order to
become consistently successful traders. there are two reasons for this. the
first is that you need absolutely no skill of any kind to put on a winning
trade. for most traders it usually takes years of pain and suffering before
they figure out or finally admit to themselves that there's more to being
consistent than the ability to pick an occasional winner.
在成为持续⼀致成功交易者的路上，交易者经常忽视了⼀个事实，那
就是要适应。有两个原因。第⼀个原因是，赚钱的交易不需要任何技
术。⼤部分交易者通常需要经过⼏年的痛苦才明⽩或最终承认，实现
持续⼀致⽐找到赚钱的交易更重要。
the second reason is that you don't have to travel anywhere to trade. all you
need is access to a phone. you don't even have to roll out of bed in the
morning. even traders who normally trade from an office don't have to be in
the office to put on or take off their trades. because we can access and
interact with the market from personal environments that we are intimately
familiar with, it seems as if trading won't require any special adaptations in
the way we think.
第⼆个原因是你不必为了交易⽽千⽅百计。只要能打电话就⾏了。你
甚⾄没有必要在早上起床。即使是在办公室交易的交易者也没有必要
⼀定在办公室交易。因为我们可以在⾃⼰熟悉的环境⾥和接触市场，
看起来似乎交易并不需要特意改变我们的想法。

to some degree, you are probably already aware of many of the fundamental
truths (psychological characteristics) about the nature of trading. but having
an awareness or an understanding of some principle, insight, or concept
doesn't necessarily equate to acceptance and belief. when something has
been truly accepted, it isn't in conflict with any other component of our
mental environment. when we believe in something, we operate out of that
belief as a natural function of who we are, without struggle or extra effort.
to whatever degree there is a conflict with any other component of our
mental environment, to the same degree there is a lack of acceptance.
在某种程度上，你可能早就知道了很多关于交易的基本事实（⼼理特
点）。但是知道或了解⼀些原则、知识或概念并不等于接受和相信。
只有完全接受了，才不会和我们的思想产⽣冲突。当我们相信时，我
们不需要挣扎或努⼒，就能⾃然地去操作。只要有⼀定程度的冲突，
就有⼀定程度的不接受。
it isn't difficult, therefore, to understand why so few people make it as
traders. they simply don't do the mental work necessary to reconcile the
many conflicts that exist between what they've already learned and believe,
and how that learning contradicts and acts as a source of resistance to
implementing the various principles of successful trading. getting into and
taking advantage of the kind of free-flowing states of mind that are ideal for
trading requires that those conflicts be thoroughly resolved.
因此，不难理解为何只有少数⼈成为交易者。对于他们已经学到的东
⻄和成功交易原则之间的冲突，他们不会去做协调。要想掌握并利⽤
理想交易的优势思想，需要彻底解决那些冲突。
markets most fundamental characteristic (it can express itself
in an almost infinite combination of ways )
市场最基本的特征（它⼏乎可以⽤任何组合⽅式来表达⾃⼰）
the market can do virtually anything at any time. this seems obvious
enough, especially for anybody who has experienced a market that has

displayed erratic and volatile price swings. the problem is that all of us have
the tendency to take this characteristic for granted, in ways that cause us to
make the most fundamental trading errors over and over again. the fact is
that if traders really believed that anything could happen at any time, there
would be considerably fewer losers and more consistent winners.
市场可以在任何时刻做任何事。对于曾经体验过疯狂的价格波动的⼈
来说，这就⾜够了。问题是，我们都倾向于认为这是⾃然的，导致我
们⼀次⼜⼀次地犯基本的错误。事实是，如果交易者真的相信什么事
都有可能随时发⽣，那么输家将很少，持续⼀致的赢家将会有很多。
how do we know that virtually anything can happen? this fact is easy to
establish. all we have to do is dissect the market into its component parts
and look at how the parts operate. the most fundamental component of any
market is its traders. individual traders act as a force on prices, making them
move by either bidding a price up or offering it lower.
我们如何知道任何事都会发⽣？很容易知道这个事实。我们可以把市
场分解成⼏个部分，看看每个部分的⼯作情况。任何市场最基本的部
分是交易者。交易者是价格波动的⼒量，不是涨就是跌。
why do traders bid a price up or offer it lower? to answer this question we
have to establish the reasons why people trade. there are many reasons and
purposes behind a person s motivation to trade in any given market.
however, for the purposes of this illustration, we don't have to know all the
underlying reasons that compel any individual trader to act because
ultimately they all boil down to one reason and one purpose: to make
money. we know this because there are only two things a trader can do (buy
and sell) and there are only two possible outcomes for every trade (profit or
loss).
交易者在报价时，为何会报⾼价或低价？为了回答这个问题，我们要
找到⼈们交易的原因。交易者交易的原因有很多，也有很多⽬的。然
⽽，谈到⽬的，我们不必知道所有的原因，因为最终的原因和⽬的

是：赚钱。我们知道，是因为交易者只能做两件事（买和卖），每笔
交易也只有两个结果（利润或亏损）。
therefore, i think we can safely assume that regardless of one's reasons for
trading, the bottom line is that everyone is looking for the same outcome:
profits. and there are only two ways to create those profits: either buy low
and sell high, or sell high and buy low. if we assume that everyone wants to
make money, then there's only one reason why any trader would bid a price
up to the next highest level: because he believes he can sell whatever he's
buying at a higher price at some point in the future. the same is true for the
trader who's willing to sell something at a price that is less than the last
posted price (offer a market lower). he does it because he believes he can
buy back whatever he's selling at a lower price at some point in the future.
因此，我可以这么认为，不管每个⼈交易的原因是什么，其实每个⼈
的追求是⼀样的：利润。赚取利润的⽅法只有两个：低买⾼卖，或⾼
卖低买。如果我们知道每个⼈都是为了赚钱，那么交易者报⾼价的原
因只有⼀个：因为他可以在将来以更⾼的价格卖出。对于报低价的
⼈，道理是⼀样的。他做空是因为他认为在将来可以以更低的价格回
补。
if we look at the market's behavior as a function of price movement, and if
price movement is a function of traders who are willing to bid prices up or
offer them lower, then we can say that all price movement (market
behavior) is a function of what traders believe about the future. to be more
specific, all price movement is a function of what individual traders believe
about what is high and what is low.
如果我们把市场⾏为看成是价格的波动，如果价格的波动是因为交易
者愿意报⾼价或报低价，那么我们可以说，所有的价格波动（市场⾏
为）是交易者对未来的预期功能。再具体点，所有的价格波动是每个
交易者对价格的认知功能。
the underlying dynamics of market behavior are quite simple. only three
primary forces exist in any market: traders who believe the price is low,

traders who believe the price is high, and traders who are watching and
waiting to make up their minds about whether the price is low or high.
technically, the third group constitutes a potential force. the reasons that
support any given traders belief that something is high or low are usually
irrelevant, because most people who trade act in an undisciplined,
unorganized, haphazard, and random manner. so, their reasons wouldn't
necessarily help anyone gain a better understanding of what is going on.
市场⾏为下的动⼒很简单。在任何市场，只有三种最基本的⼒量：交
易者认为价格低，交易者认为价格⾼，交易者在观望，根据价格⾼低
再做决定。这三组构成了⼀个潜在的⼒量。对于交易者的信念，价格
是⾼是低，这些原因通常都是不相关的，因为⼤部分交易者交易时没
有纪律、没有阻⽌、没有计划、随意。因此，他们的原因也不起认知
上的帮助作⽤。
but, understanding what's going on isn't that difficult, if you remember that
all price movement or lack of movement is a function of the relative
balance or imbalance between two primary forces: traders who believe the
price is going up, and traders who believe the price is going down. if there's
balance between the two groups, prices will stagnate, because each side will
absorb the force of the other side's actions. if there is an imbalance, prices
will move in the direction of the greater force, or the traders who have the
stronger convictions in their beliefs about in what direction the price is
going.
但是，知道发⽣了什么也不难，如果你知道价格波动或不波动是两组
基本⼒量的平衡或不平衡：相信价格要涨的交易者，和相信价格要跌
的交易者。如果两组平衡，价格就会停滞，因为每⼀⽅都会吸收对⽅
的⼒量。如果平衡被打破，价格会向⼒量⼤的⼀⽅波动，或者是向有
更强信念的⼀⽅波动。
now, i want you to ask yourself, what's going to stop virtually anything
from happening at any time, other than exchange-imposed limits on price
movement. there's nothing to stop the price of an issue from going as high
or low as whatever some trader in the world believes is possible - if, of

course, the trader is willing to act on that belief. so the range of the market's
behavior in its collective form is limited only by the most extreme beliefs
about what is high and what is low held by any given individual
participating in that market. i think the implications are self-evident: there
can be an extreme diversity of beliefs present in any given market in any
given moment, making virtually anything possible.
现在，请问问你⾃⼰，什么会阻⽌随时会发⽣的事，涨停和跌停的限
制不算。如果交易者只是认为价格会涨或跌，并没有⾏动，那么是没
有什么东⻄能阻⽌价格的涨跌的。所以，市场波动的范围是市场参与
者信念的表达，他们认为什么是⾼，什么是低。我认为结果不⾔⽽喻
的：在任何市场，任何时刻，市场⾥的信念都是不同的，导致任何事
都有可能发⽣。
when we look at the market from this perspective, it's easy to see that every
potential trader who is willing to express his belief about the future
becomes a market variable. on a more personal level, this means that it only
takes one other trader, anywhere in the world, to negate the positive
potential of your trade. put another way, it takes only one other trader to
negate what you believe about what is high or what is low. that's all, only
one!
当我们⽤这个观点来看市场，我们很容易地发现，任何交易者表达⾃
⼰的⽅式都会成为市场的变数。从个⼈的⾓度来说，只有另外⼀个交
易者来中和这笔交易。换句话说，只要另外⼀个交易者就可以中和你
对市场的看法，⽆论是⾼，还是低。没错，只要⼀个交易者就⾏了！
here's an example to illustrate this point. several years ago, a trader came to
me for help. he was an excellent market analyst; in fact, he was one of the
best i've ever met. but after years of frustration during which he lost all his
money and a lot of other people's money, he was finally ready to admit that,
as a trader, he left a lot to be desired. after talking to him for a while, i
determined that a number of serious psychological obstacles were
preventing him from being successful. one of the most troublesome
obstacles was that he was a know-it-all and extremely arrogant, making it

impossible for him to achieve the degree of mental flexibility required to
trade effectively. it didn't matter how good an analyst he was. when he came
to me, he was so desperate for money and help that he was willing to
consider anything.
还有⼀个例⼦可以说明这点。⼏年前，⼀个交易者找我帮忙。他是优
秀的市场分析师；实际上，他是我遇到的最优秀的分析师之⼀。多年
的挫折，他不但把⾃⼰的钱亏光了，还亏光了别⼈的很多钱，最终他
开始承认，作为交易者，他失去的太多了。和他谈了⼀会⼉，我发现
他有⼀些⼼理障碍，导致他不能成功。其中⼀个最⼤的障碍是他什么
都知道，很⾃⼤，所以他的思想就不够灵活，⽆法实现交易的有效
性。不管他是多么优秀的分析师。当他找我时，他对钱和帮助充满了
渴望。
the first suggestion i made was that instead of looking for another investor
to back what ultimately would be another failed attempt at trading, he
would be better off taking a job, doing something he was truly good at. he
could be paid a steady income while working through his problems, and at
the same time provide someone with a worthwhile service. he took my
advice and quickly found a position as a technical analyst with a fairly
substantial brokerage house and clearing firm in chicago.
我的第⼀个建议不是再找⼀个投资者来投资，这样可能最终⼜是失败
的，他应该找个⼯作，做他最擅⻓的事。他可以⼀边领⼯资，⼀边解
决问题，同时为别⼈提供有价值的服务。他接受了我的建议，很快在
芝加哥的⼀个⼤经纪清算公司找到了⼀个技术分析师的职位。
the semiretired chairman of the board of the brokerage firm was a longtime
trader with nearly 40 years of experience in the grain pits at the chicago
board of trade. he didn't know much about technical analysis, because he
never needed it to make money on the floor. but he no longer traded on the
floor and found the transition to trading from a screen difficult and
somewhat mysterious. so he asked the firm's newly acquired star technical
analyst to sit with him during the trading day and teach him technical

trading. the new hire jumped at the opportunity to show off his abilities to
such an experienced and successful trader.
这家经纪公司的主席快退休了，他在芝加哥交易所交易了接近 40 年的
⾕物。因为他在场内交易，不需要技术分析，所以他不懂技术分析。
但是他现在不在场内交易了，他发现看着屏幕交易真难，有点神奇。
所以他让公司新招的明星技术分析师坐在他旁边，教他⽤技术进⾏交
易。这位新来的抓住机会，向有丰富经验的成功交易者展⽰⾃⼰的能
⼒。
the analyst was using a method called "point and line," developed by charlie
drummond. (among other things, point and line can accurately define
support and resistance.) one day, as the two of them were watching the
soybean market together, the analyst had projected major support and
resistance points and the market happened to be trading between these two
points. as the technical analyst was explaining to the chairman the
significance of these two points, he stated in very emphatic, almost absolute
terms that if the market goes up to resistance, it will stop and reverse; and if
the market goes down to support, it will also stop and reverse. then he
explained that if the market went down to the price level he calculated as
support, his calculations indicated that would also be the low of the day.
这位分析师⽤的⽅法叫 " 点线 " ，是查理 · 德拉蒙德发明的（在所有的⽅
法中，点线可以准确地定义⽀撑和阻⼒）。⼀天，两个⼈正在⼀起看
⼤⾖市场，这个分析师预测了⽀撑点和阻⼒点，市场正好在这两点振
荡。当时，分析师向主席解释了这两点的重要性，他说的很明确，⼏
乎⽤了绝对的⼝⽓，如果市场涨到阻⼒点，它就会停⽌并反转；如果
市场跌到⽀撑点，它也会停⽌并反转。他还解释了，如果市场跌到了
他计算出的⽀撑点，那么他的计算表明这就是当天的最低点。
as they sat there, the bean market was slowly trending down to the price the
analyst said would be the support, or low, of the day. when it finally got
there, the chairman looked over to the analyst and said, "this is where the
market is supposed to stop and go higher, right?" the analyst responded,

"absolutely! this is the low of the day."  "that's bullshit!" the chairman
retorted. "watch this." he picked up the phone, called one of the clerks
handling orders for the soybean pit, and said, "sell two million beans
(bushels) at the market." within thirty seconds after he placed the order, the
soybean market dropped ten cents a bushel. the chairman turned to look at
the horrified expression on the analysts face. calmly, he asked, "now, where
did you say the market was going to stop? if i can do that, anyone can."
当他们坐在那⾥时，⼤⾖市场慢慢地跌到所谓的⽀撑点或之下。当价
格最终到了⽀撑点时，主席看着分析师说： " 市场将在这⾥打住，并上
涨，对吗？ " 分析师回应： " 绝对是的！这就是今天的最低点。 "" 你在
胡扯！ " 主席反驳道： " 看这个 " 。他拿起电话，打给场内帮他下单的职
员，并说： " 卖出 200 万（蒲式⽿）⼤⾖。 " 他下单后的 30 秒后，⼤⾖下
跌了 10 分 / 蒲式⽿。主席转⾝看着分析师恐怖的脸⾊。他冷静地
问： " 现在你说市场会在哪⾥打住？如果我可以这么做，任何⼈都可以
这么做。 "
the point is that from our own individual perspective as observers of the
market, anything can happen, and it takes only one trader to do it. this is the
hard, cold reality of trading that only the very best traders have embraced
and accepted with no internal conflict. how do i know this? because only
the best traders consistently predefine their risks before entering a trade.
only the best traders cut their losses without reservation or hesitation when
the market tells them the trade isn't working. and only the best traders have
an organized, systematic, money-management regimen for taking profits
when the market goes in the direction of their trade.
要点是，从个⼈观察着的⾓度来说，任何事都有可能发⽣，只要⼀个
交易者就可以实现。这是⼀个艰难，冷酷的交易现实，最优秀的交易
者已经拥抱并在内⼼接受了这个现实，不会有内部冲突。我怎么会知
道？因为只有最优秀的交易者总是在交易前定义⻛险。当市场告诉他
们交易有问题时，只有最优秀的交易者⽌损，不会有保留或犹豫。当
市场对他们有利时，只有最优秀的交易者有组织、有系统、有资⾦管
理，严格地兑现利润。

not predefining your risk, not cutting your losses, or not systematically
taking profits are three of the most common - and usually the most costly -
trading errors you can make. only the best traders have eliminated these
errors from their trading. at some point in their careers, they learned to
believe without a shred of doubt that anything can happen, and to always
account for what they don't know, for the unexpected.
不提前定义⻛险，不⽌损或没有兑现利润的系统，这是三个最普遍的 -
- 通常也是成本最⾼的 -- 错误。只有最优秀的交易者会消灭这些错误。
在他们的职业⽣涯中，他们有时会毫不怀疑地相信任何事都有可能发
⽣，意想不到的事总是会发⽣。
remember that there are only two forces that cause prices to move: traders
who believe the markets are going up, and traders who believe the markets
are going down. at any given moment, we can see who has the stronger
conviction by observing where the market is now relative to where it was at
some previous moment. if a recognizable pattern is present, that pattern
may repeat itself, giving us an indication of where the market is headed. this
is our edge, something we know.
记住，只有两个⼒量导致价格波动：相信价格会上涨的交易者，和相
信价格会下跌的交易者。在任何时刻，和之前⽐，我们就能看出市场
中哪⼀⽅更有信⼼。如果有明显的模式，这个模式会重复出现，它会
指⽰市场像哪个⽅向⾛。这就是我们的优势，这是我们知道的。
but there's also much that we don't know, and will never know unless we
learn how to read minds. for instance, do we know how many traders may
be sitting on the sidelines and about to enter the market? do we know how
many of them want to buy and how many want to sell, or how many shares
they are willing to buy or sell? what about the traders whose participation is
already reflected in the current price? at any given moment, how many of
them are about to change their minds and exit their positions? if they do,
how long will they stay out of the market? and if and when they do come
back into the market, in what direction will they cast their votes?

如果我们不学习如何解读思想，那么还有很多东⻄我们不知道，可能
永远不知道。⽐如，我们是否知道有多少交易者正在等待，随时会进
场？我们是否知道有多少⼈要买⼊，有多少⼈要卖出，或者是他们买
卖多少股？是否交易者的⾏为已经被价格反应了？在任何时刻，有多
少⼈要改变思想并平仓？如果他们要这么做，他们会空仓多久？他们
何时回到市场，他们进场⽅向如何？
these are the constant, never-ending, unknown, hidden variables that are
always operating in every market - always! the best traders don't try to hide
from these unknown variables by pretending they don't exist, nor do they
try to intellectualize or rationalize them away through market analysis. quite
the contrary, the best traders take these variables into account, factoring
them into every component of their trading regimes.
在任何市场，这些持续的、永⽆⽌境的、未知的、隐藏的变数总是存
在！最优秀的交易者不会通过假装不知道来隐藏这些未知的变数，他
们也不会通过市场分析把这些变数合理化。相反，最优秀的交易者在
他们的交易计划中提前考虑了这些变数，把变数作为⼀个因素来考
虑。
for the typical trader, just the opposite is true. he trades from the perspective
that what he can't see, hear, or feel must not exist. what other explanation
could account for his behavior? if he really believed in the existence of all
the hidden variables that have the potential to act on prices in any given
moment, then he would also have to believe that every trade has an
uncertain outcome. and if every trade truly has an uncertain outcome, then
how could he ever justify or talk himself into not predefining his risk,
cutting his losses, or having some systematic way to take profits? given the
circumstances, not adhering to these three fundamental principles is the
equivalent of committing financial and emotional suicide.
对于典型的交易者来说，只有反⾯才是真实的。他通过⾃⼰⽆法看到
的、⽆法听到的、⽆法感觉到的东⻄做交易。对于他的⾏为，还有什
么借⼝吗？如果他真的相信⼀些隐藏的变数随时会影响价格的波动，

那么他就应该相信每笔交易都会有不确定的结果。如果每笔交易都会
有不确定的结果，那么他是如何叫⾃⼰不衡量⻛险，不⽌损，不系统
地兑现利润？不坚守这三个原则就等于是⾦钱上和情绪上的⾃杀。
since most traders don't adhere to these principles, are we to assume that
their true underlying motivation for trading is to destroy themselves? it's
certainly possible, but i think the percentage of traders who either
consciously or subconsciously want to rid themselves of their money or hurt
themselves in some way is extremely small. so, if financial suicide is not
the predominant reason, then what could keep someone from doing
something that would otherwise make absolute, perfect sense? the answer is
quite simple: the typical trader doesn't predefine his risk, cut his losses, or
systematically take profits because the typical trader doesn't believe it's
necessary. the only reason why he would believe it isn't necessary is that he
believes he already knows what's going to happen next, based on what he
perceives is happening in any given "now moment." if he already knows,
then there's really no reason to adhere to these principles. believing,
assuming, or thinking that "he knows" will be the cause of virtually every
trading error he has the potential to make (with the exception of those errors
that are the result of not believing that he deserves the money).
因为⼤部分交易者不遵守这三个原则，那么我们是不是可以认定他们
交易的动机就是为了⾃毁？有这个可能，但我觉得⼤部分交易者有意
识或⽆意识地散钱或⾃残的概率很⼩。那么，如果⾦钱⽅⾯的⾃杀不
是主要原因，那么如何才能让⼀个⼈保持清绝对醒呢？答案很简单：
典型的交易者不提前衡量⻛险，不⽌损，不系统地兑现利润的原因是
他们认为没有必要。他认为没有必要的原因是他认为他知道结果是什
么，他根据 " 现在 " 就能知道结果。如果他已经知道了，那么实在没有
理由去遵守原则。他相信、认为、⼼想 " 他知道 " 是他在交易时可能犯
错的原因（包括他不相信他会赚钱⽽犯的错）。
our beliefs about what is true and real are very powerful inner forces. they
control every aspect of how we interact with the markets, from our
perceptions, interpretations, decisions, actions, and expectations, to our

feelings about the results. it's extremely difficult to act in a way that
contradicts what we believe to be true. in some cases, depending on the
strength of the belief, it can be next to impossible to do anything that
violates the integrity of a belief.
我们对真实的信念是⼀个很有⼒的内部⼒量。它控制着我们在交易时
的⽅⽅⾯⾯，包括认知、理解、决定、⾏动和预期，这些感觉都和结
果有关。和我们相信的东⻄对着⼲是很难的。有时候，因为信念有⼒
量，我们就很难去违背⾃⼰的信念。
what the typical trader doesn't realize is that he needs an inner mechanism,
in the form of some powerful beliefs, that virtually compels him to perceive
the market from a perspective that is always expanding with greater and
greater degrees of clarity, and also compels him always act appropriately,
given the psychological conditions and the nature of price movement. the
most effective and functional trading belief that he can acquire is "anything
can happen." aside from the fact that it is the truth, it will act as a solid
foundation for building every other belief and attitude that he needs to be a
successful trader.
典型的交易者不知道他需要⼀个内部机制，这个内部机制就是强有⼒
的信念，这个信念让他越来越清楚地认识市场，并根据⼼理状况和价
格波动让他总是合理地⾏动。对他来说，最有效，最基本的交易信念
就是 " 任何事都会发⽣ " 。除了这个事实，要想成为成功的交易者，这
个信念还要成为其它信念和态度的坚定基础。
without that belief, his mind will automatically, and usually without his
conscious awareness, cause him to avoid, block, or rationalize away any
information that indicates the market may do something he hasn't accepted
as possible. if he believes that anything is possible, then there's nothing for
his mind to avoid. because anything includes everything, this belief will act
as an expansive force on his perception of the market that will allow him to
perceive information that might otherwise have been invisible to him. in
essence, he will be making himself available (opening his mind) to perceive
more of the possibilities that exist from the markets perspective.

没有这个信念，他的思想会⾃动地，通常是⽆意识地，让他避免、阻
挡或合理化那些市场可能有什么⾏动的信息，他不认为这样的信息有
可能是真的。如果他相信任何事都有可能发⽣，那么他就没有理由去
回避。因为任何事包括所有的事，这个信念成为⼀个⼒量，让他看⻅
过去看不⻅的信息。总之，他会看⻅市场中更多的概率（思想开
放）。
most important, by establishing a belief that anything can happen, he will
be training his mind to think in probabilities. this is by far the most essential
as well as the most difficult principle for people to grasp and to effectively
integrate into their mental systems.
更重要的是，⼀旦有了任何事都会发⽣的信念，他就会训练⾃⼰的思
想去考虑概率。对于交易者来说，这是最精华的，也是最难掌握的原
则，这个原则需要有效地融⼊他们的思想系统。