Chapter 7 the trader's edge: thinking in
probabilities
第  07 章  交易者的优势：考虑概率

exactly what does it mean to think in probabilities, and why is it so essential
to one's consistent success as a trader? if you take a moment and analyze
the last sentence, you will notice that i made consistency a function of
probabilities. it sounds like a contradiction: how can someone produce
consistent results from an event that has an uncertain probabilistic
outcome? to answer this question, all we have to do is look to the gambling
industry.
究竟什么是考虑概率，为什么对成为持续⼀致成功交易者很关键？如
果你花点时间分析最后⼀句，你会注意到我把持续⼀致说成是概率的
功能。这听起来很⽭盾：⼀个⼈如何从不确定的概率⾥⾯得到持续⼀
致的结果？要想回答这个问题，我们要看看赌博⾏业。
corporations spend vast amounts of money, in the hundreds of millions, if
not billions, of dollars, on elaborate hotels to attract people to their casinos.
if you've been to las vegas you know exactly what i am talking about.
gaming corporations are just like other corporations, in that they have to
justify how they allocate their assets to a board of directors and ultimately
to their stockholders. how do you suppose they justify spending vast sums
of money on elaborate hotels and casinos, whose primary function is to
generate revenue from an event that has a purely random outcome?
赌场公司会花很多钱，上亿的钱去装修宾馆，以吸引客⼈到赌场。如
果你去过拉斯维加斯，你就会明⽩我在说什么。赌场公司和其它公司
⼀样，这么做就可以合理地向董事会和股东说明他们是如何分配资产
的。他们花了⼤量钱装修宾馆和赌场，如果它们产⽣的收⼊是随机
的，你会怎么想？

probabilities paradox: random outcome, consistent results
概率的似⾮⽽是：随机的结果，持续⼀致的收⼊
here's an interesting paradox. casinos make consistent profits day after day
and year after year, facilitating an event that has a purely random outcome.
at the same time, most traders believe that the outcome of the market's
behavior is not random, yet can't seem to produce consistent profits.
shouldn't a consistent, nonrandom outcome produce consistent results, and a
random outcome produce random, inconsistent results?
这是⼀个有趣的似⾮⽽是。利⽤⼀件随机的事件，赌场可以⽇复⼀
⽇，年复⼀年地赚到持续⼀致的利润。同时，⼤部分交易者相信市场
⾏为的结果不是随机的，不能产⽣持续⼀致的利润。是不是持续⼀致
的，不随机的结果能产⽣持续⼀致的收⼊，随机的结果产⽣随机的，
不持续⼀致的收⼊？
what casino owners, experienced gamblers, and the best traders understand
that the typical trader finds difficult to grasp is: even that have probable
outcomes can produce consistent results, if you can get the odds in your
favor and there is a large enough sample size. the best traders treat trading
like a numbers game, similar to the way in which casinos and professional
gamblers approach gambling.
赌场拥有者，有经验的赌徒和最优秀的交易者明⽩的道理，⽽典型的
交易者很难理解的是：如果你的概率很⼤，且你交易的次数够多，那
么你有机会产⽣持续⼀致的收⼊。最优秀的交易者把交易当作赌博，
与赌场和专业赌徒的⽅式⼀样。
to illustrate, let's look at the game of blackjack. in blackjack, the casinos
have approximately a 4.5-percent edge over the player, based on the rules
they require players to adhere to. this means that, over a large enough
sample size (number of hands played), the casino will generate net profits
of four and a half cents on every dollar wagered on the game. this average
of four and a half cents takes into account all the players who walked away

big winners (including all winning streaks), all the players who walked
away big losers, and everybody in between. at the end of the day, week,
month, or year, the casino always ends up with approximately 4.5 percent of
the total amount wagered.
为了说明这点，请看看扑克牌的 21 点。在 21 点中，赌场的优势⽐玩家
多 4.5% ，这是游戏规则决定的。这意味着，如果次数够多（玩牌的数
量），每个牌局赌博下来赌场的净利润是 4.5% 。这个平均 4.5% 的利润
已经考虑过了所有赚⼤钱并离开的赢家（也考虑了所有的⼩赢家），
所有亏钱离开的输家，以及所有⼈。每天、每周、每⽉、每年，赌场
都赚了所有赌资的 4.5% 左右。
that 4.5 percent might not sound like a lot, but let's put it in perspective.
suppose a total of $100 million dollars is wagered collectively at all of a
casino's blackjack tables over the course of a year. the casino will net $4.5
million.
4.5% 听起来不多，但是让我们算算。假如⼀年下来，玩 21 点的总赌资
是 1 个亿。赌场的净利润是 450 万。
what casino owners and professional gamblers understand about the nature
of probabilities is that each individual hand played is statistically
independent of every other hand. this means that each individual hand is a
unique event, where the outcome is random relative to the last hand played
or the next hand played. if you focus on each hand individually, there will
be a random, unpredictable distribution between winning and losing hands.
but on a collective basis, just the opposite is true. if a large enough number
of hands is played, patterns will emerge that produce a consistent,
predictable, and statistically reliable outcome.
赌场拥有者和专业赌徒都知道每个牌局概率都不⼀样。这意味着每个
牌局都是独特的，结果是随机的，和前后每个牌局都不⼀样。如果你
聚焦于每个牌局，结果是随机的，⽆法预测的，不是赢就是输。但是

总体⽽⾔，事实相反。如果赌了很多局，模式就出现了，会产⽣持续
⼀致、可预测的、统计可靠的结果。
here's what makes thinking in probabilities so difficult. it requires two
layers of beliefs that on the surface seem to contradict each other. we'll call
the first layer the micro level. at this level, you have to believe in the
uncertainty and unpredictability of each individual hand. you know the truth
of this uncertainty, because there are always a number of unknown variables
affecting the consistency of the deck that each new hand is drawn from. for
example, you can't know in advance how any of the other participants will
decide to play their hands, since they can either take or decline additional
cards. any variables acting on the consistency of the deck that can't be
controlled or known in advance will make the outcome of any particular
hand both uncertain and random (statistically independent) in relationship
to any other hand.
这显得概率思考很难。这需要两层⽭盾的信念。第⼀层是微观的。在
这个层次，你要相信每个牌局是不确定的，是⽆法预测的。你知道不
确定这个事实，因为不同的牌局总是有⼤量未知的变数在影响持续⼀
致性。⽐如，你⽆法知道你的对⼿怎么打，因为他们可以拿牌或不拿
牌。所有影响持续⼀致性的变数是⽆法控制的，也不能提前知道，这
样就导致每个牌局的结果是不确定的，随机的（统计结果就是相互独
⽴的）。
the second layer is the macro level. at this level, you have to believe that the
outcome over a series of hands played is relatively certain and predictable.
the degree of certainty is based on the fixed or constant variables that are
known in advance and specifically designed to give an advantage (edge) to
one side or the other. the constant variables i am referring to are the rules of
the game. so, even though you don't or couldn't know in advance (unless
you are psychic) the sequence of wins to losses, you can be relatively
certain that if enough hands are played, whoever has the edge will end up
with more wins than losses. the degree of certainty is a function of how
good the edge is.

第⼆层是宏观的。在这个层次，你要相信很多牌局打下来，结果是确
定的，可以预测的。这个确定的程度取决于提前知道其中⼀⽅所占优
势形成的固定系数。这个固定系数就是游戏规则。所以，即使你不能
提前知道输赢情况，你也能知道打了⼀定牌局之后的相对确定的东
⻄，有优势的⼈会赢的多，亏的少。确定的程度取决于优势的⼤⼩。
it's the ability to believe in the unpredictability of the game at the micro
level and simultaneously believe in the predictability of the game at the
macro level that makes the casino and the professional gambler effective
and successful at what they do. their belief in the uniqueness of each hand
prevents them from engaging in the pointless endeavor of trying to predict
the outcome of each individual hand. they have learned and completely
accepted the fact that they don't know what's going to happen next. more
important, they don't need to know in order to make money consistently.
在微观层次相信牌局是⽆法预测的，同时在宏观的层次相信牌局是可
以预测的，赌场和专业赌徒正是这样才实现了有效的成功。他们相信
每个牌局是独特的，所以他们不会⽆谓地猜测每个牌局的结果。他们
已经明⽩，并完全接受了这个事实，他们不知道下⼀步会如何。更重
要的是，他们不需要知道这些，也能实现持续⼀致地赚钱。
e to know what's going to happen next, they don't place any special
significance, emotional or otherwise, on each individual hand, spin of the
wheel, or roll of the dice. in other words, they're not encumbered by
unrealistic expectations about what is going to happen, nor are their egos
involved in a way that makes them have to be right. as a result, it's easier to
stay focused on keeping the odds in their favor and executing flawlessly,
which in turn makes them less susceptible to making costly mistakes. they
stay relaxed because they are committed and willing to let the probabilities
(their edges) play themselves out, all the while knowing that if their edges
are good enough and the sample sizes are big enough, they will come out
net winners.

因为他们没有必要知道下⼀步会如何，他们不会对每⼀次机会或掷⾊
⼦有特定的感情。换句话说，他们不会有不切实际的想法，也不会为
了⾃尊⽽证明⾃⼰必须正确。结果是，聚焦于保持概率，认真地执
⾏，这样他们就不会犯⼤错误。他们轻松是因为他们知道概率（他们
的优势）会⾃⼰⼯作，他们知道只要⾃⼰的优势还在，只要牌局够
多，他们最终⼀定是赢家。
the best traders use the same thinking strategy as the casino and
professional gambler. not only does it work to their benefit, but the
underlying dynamics supporting the need for such a strategy are exactly the
same in trading as they are in gambling. a simple comparison between the
two will demonstrate this quite clearly.
最优秀的交易者使⽤同样的思想策略。和赌博⼀样，不但有好处，内
在的策略都是⼀样。简单⽐较⼀下，就能清楚地说明这点。
first, the trader, the gambler, and the casino are all dealing with both known
and unknown variables that affect the outcome of each trade or gambling
event. in gambling, the known variables are the rules of the game. in
trading, the known variables (from each individual trader's perspective) are
the results of their market analysis.
⾸先，交易者、赌徒和赌场都是在处理已知和未知的变数，这些变数
会影响交易或赌博的结果。赌博时，他们知道变数就是游戏规则。交
易时，已知的变数（每个交易者观点不同）是市场分析的结果。
market analysis finds behavior patterns in the collective actions of everyone
participating in a market. we know that individuals will act the same way
under similar situations and circumstances, over and over again, producing
observable patterns of behavior. by the same token, groups of individuals
interacting with one another, day after day, week after week, also produce
behavior patterns that repeat themselves.

市场分析寻找市场⼤众的集体⾏为模式。我们知道，在同样的状况
下，同样的交易者会⼀次⼜⼀次地进⾏同样的操作，结果是显⽽易⻅
的。同理，每天，每周，同样的群体会反复交涉，导致的⾏为模式也
会不断重复。
these collective behavior patterns can be discovered and subsequently
identified by using analytical tools such as trend lines, moving averages,
oscillators, or retracements, just to name a few of the thousands that are
available to any trader. each analytical tool uses a set of criteria to define
the boundaries of each behavior pattern identified. the set of criteria and the
boundaries identified are the trader's known market variables. they are to
the individual trader what the rules of the game are to the casino and
gambler. by this i mean, the trader's analytical tools are the known variables
that put the odds of success (the edge) for any given trade in the trader's
favor, in the same way that the rules of the game put the odds of success in
favor of the casino.
有⼏千种⼯具，⽐如趋势线、均线、振荡指标或反弹线，它们都可以
发现并确认这些集体的⾏为模式。每个分析⼯具的参数不⼀样，定义
的范围也不同。这些参数和定义的范围就是交易者已知的市场变数。
就像赌场的规则⼀样，它们就是交易者个⼈的规则。对于交易者来
说，这些分析⼯具就是已知的变数，帮交易者增加成功的概率（优
势），同理，赌场⽤⾃⼰的概率成功。
second, we know that in gambling a number of unknown variables act on
the outcome of each game. in blackjack, the unknowns are the shuffling of
the deck and how the players choose to play their hands. in craps, it's how
the dice are thrown. and in roulette, it's the amount of force applied to spin
the wheel. all these unknown variables act as forces on the outcome of each
individual event, in a way that causes each event to be statistically
independent of any other individual event, thereby creating a random
distribution between wins and losses.

第⼆，我们知道每个牌局都有⼀些未知的变数。在 21 点中，未知的是
洗牌的⽅式和玩家如何拿牌。简单说就是如何掷⾊⼦。在轮盘赌中，
未知的变数是转动轮盘的⼒量。所有这些未知的变数影响每个赌局的
结果，这样从统计的⾓度来说，每个赌局的结果互不相⼲，这样输赢
就是随机的。
trading also involves a number of unknown variables that act on the
outcome of any particular behavior pattern a trader may identify and use as
his edge. in trading, the unknown variables are all other traders who have
the potential to come into the market to put on or take off a trade. each trade
contributes to the market's position at any given moment, which means that
each trader, acting on a belief about what is high and what is low,
contributes to the collective behavior pattern that is displayed at that
moment.
交易者会把⼀些未知的变数看成是他们的优势。交易时，未知变数可
能会导致其它交易者进场或出场。每个交易者都对市场的点位做了贡
献，这意味着，不同的⼈对⾼低看法不同，导致了现在市场的集体⾏
为模式。
if there is a recognizable pattern, and if the variables used to define that
pattern conform to a particular trader's definition of an edge, then we can
say that the market is offering the trader an opportunity to buy low or sell
high, based on the trader's definition. suppose the trader seizes the
opportunity to take advantage of his edge and puts on a trade. what factors
will determine whether the market unfolds in the direction of his edge or
against it? the answer is: the behavior of other traders!
如果模式是明显的，如果变数定义的模式和某个交易者认为的优势⼀
致，那么可以说市场给这位交易者提供了⼀个买卖机会，具体是买还
是卖，要看这个交易者的定义如何。假如这个交易者抓住了机会并建
仓了。什么因素会决定市场对他有利或不利？答案是：其他交易者的
⾏为！

at the moment he puts a trade on, and for as long as he chooses to stay in
that trade, other traders will be participating in that market. they will be
acting on their beliefs about what is high and what is low. at any given
moment, some percentage of other traders will contribute to an outcome
favorable to our traders edge, and the participation of some percentage of
traders will negate his edge. there's no way to know in advance how
everyone else is going to behave and how their behavior will affect his
trade, so the outcome of the trade is uncertain. the fact is, the outcome of
every (legal) trade that anyone decides to make is affected in some way by
the subsequent behavior of other traders participating in that market,
making the outcome of all trades uncertain.
当他建仓，并持有仓位时，其他交易者也在市场中。他们会根据⾃⼰
对⾼低的认识做交易。任何时刻，都有⼀些交易者给这位交易者制造
优势，还有⼀些交易者会给他制造劣势。⽆法提前知道每个⼈的⾏
为，也不知道他们的⾏为对交易有什么影响，所以每笔交易的结果是
不确定的。事实是，每笔交易都会收到别⼈交易的影响，导致所有交
易的结果都是不确定的。
since all trades have an uncertain outcome, then like gambling, each trade
has to be statistically independent of the next trade, the last trade, or any
trades in the future, even though the trader may use the same set of known
variables to identify his edge for each trade. furthermore, if the outcome of
each individual trade is statistically independent of every other trade, there
must also be a random distribution between wins and losses in any given
string or set of trades, even though the odds of success for each individual
trade may be in the traders favor.
因为所有的交易都没有确定的结果，那么就和赌博类似，每笔交易都
是相对独⽴的，即使⽤同样的已知变数来确定每笔的优势，结果也是
不确定的。还有，如果每笔交易的结果都是相对独⽴的，即使每笔交
易对交易者来说是占优势的，每笔交易的输赢⼀定有⼀个随机的分
布。

third, casino owners don't try to predict or know in advance the outcome of
each individual event. aside from the fact that it would be extremely
difficult, given all the unknown variables operating in each game, it isn't
necessary to create consistent results. casino operators have learned that all
they have to do is keep the odds in their favor and have a large enough
sample size of events so that their edges have ample opportunity to work.
第三，赌场拥有者不必去预测或提前知道每个赌局的结果。不谈这么
做的超级难度，即使考虑了每个赌局的所有未知变数，也不⼀定能产
⽣持续⼀致的结果。赌场拥有者已经明⽩了，只要对他们有利的概率
不变，只要赌局的次数够多，他们就有优势。
trading in the moment
有机会就交易
traders who have learned to think in probabilities approach the markets
from virtually the same perspective. at the micro level, they believe that
each trade or edge is unique. what they understand about the nature of
trading is that at any given moment, the market may look exactly the same
on a chart as it did at some previous moment; and the geometric
measurements and mathematical calculations used to determine each edge
can be exactly the same from one edge to the next; but the actual
consistency of the market itself from one moment to the next is never the
same.
交易者学习了这种概率的思考⽅法，就会⽤这种⽅法认知市场。在微
观层次，他们相信每笔交易或优势都是独特的。他们明⽩，在任何时
刻，市场看起来就和以前图标上的⼀样，每次计算优势的⼏何和数学
⽅法也是⼀样的，但实际的结果却永远不⼀样。
for any particular pattern to be exactly the same now as it was in some
previous moment would require that every trader who participated in that
previous moment be present. what's more, each of them would also have to
interact with one another in exactly the same way over some period of time

to produce the exact same outcome to whatever pattern was being observed.
the odds of that happening are nonexistent.
现在出现的任何模式和过去的模式⼀模⼀样，这需要过去参与的交易
者再次参与。⽽且，不管是什么模式，在⼀段时间内，每个交易者互
相交涉，⽅法和过去⼀样，结果也⼀样。这样的概率不存在。
it is extremely important that you understand this phenomenon because the
psychological implications for your trading couldn't be more important. we
can use all the various tools to analyze the market's behavior and find the
patterns that represent the best edges, and from an analytical perspective,
these patterns can appear to be precisely the same in every respect, both
mathematically and visually. but, if the consistency of the group of traders
who are creating the pattern "now" is different by even one person from the
group that created the pattern in the past, then the outcome of the current
pattern has the potential to be different from the past pattern. (the example
of the analyst and chairman illustrates this point quite well.) it takes only
one trader, somewhere in the world, with a different belief about the future
to change the outcome of any particular market pattern and negate the edge
that pattern represents.
理解这个现象很重要，因为交易⼼理暗⽰很重要。我们可以⽤各种⼯
具分析市场⾏为，且发现了优势，从分析的⾓度来看，这个优势和过
去的优势是⼀样的，⽆论是⽤数字计算，还是眼观，优势都是⼀样
的。但是，如果每个交易者这次的⾏为和以前不⼀样，那么结果也有
可能不⼀样（分析师和主席的案例能很好地说明这点）。只要有⼀个
交易者，不管他在哪⾥，只要他对未来的信念发⽣了变化，他就会改
变市场模式的结果，让优势不复存在。
the most fundamental characteristic of the market's behavior is that each
"now moment" market situation, each "now moment" behavior pattern, and
each "now moment" edge is always a unique occurrence with its own
outcome, independent of all others. uniqueness implies that anything can
happen, either what we know (expect or anticipate), or what we don't know
(or can't know, unless we had extraordinary perceptual abilities). a constant

flow of both known and unknown variables creates a probabilistic
environment where we don't know for certain what will happen next.
市场⾏为的最基本特点是，每个 " 现在的 " 状况，每个 " 现在的 " ⾏为模
式，每个 " 现在的 " 优势都是相对独⽴的，结果都会不同。独⽴意味着
任何事都有可能发⽣，不管是我们知道的（期待或期望的），或我们
不知道的（或是⽆法知道的，除⾮我们有超级灵感）。持续出现的已
知和未知变数制造了概率的环境，我们不知道下⼀步会如何。
this last statement may seem quite logical, even self-evident, but there's a
huge problem here that is anything but logical or self-evident. being aware
of uncertainty and understanding the nature of probabilities does not equate
with an ability to actually function effectively from a probabilistic
perspective. thinking in probabilities can be difficult to master, because our
minds don't naturally process information in this manner. quite the contrary,
our minds cause us to perceive what we know, and what we know is part of
our past, whereas, in the market, every moment is new and unique, even
though there may be similarities to something that occurred in the past.
最后的结论是合理的，甚⾄是不⾔⽽喻的，但是有个⼤问题，并不是
任何事都是合理的或不⾔⽽喻的。承认不确定性和知道概率的含义，
并不等于能有效地⾏动。概率⾮常难理解，因为我们的思想⼀般不会
处理这些信息。相反，我们的思想只认识所知道的东⻄，包括过去知
道的，即使是和过去相似的东⻄也会记住。
this means that unless we train our minds to perceive the uniqueness of each
moment, that uniqueness will automatically be filtered out of our
perception. we will perceive only what we know, minus any information
that is blocked by our fears; everything else will remain invisible. the
bottom line is that there is some degree of sophistication to thinking in
probabilities, which can take some people a considerable amount of effort
to integrate into their mental systems as a functional thinking strategy. most
traders don't fully understand this; as a result, they mistakenly assume they
are thinking in probabilities, because they have some degree of
understanding of the concepts.

这意味着，如果我们不训练我们的思想认识独特性，那么独特性就会
被⾃动地从我们的认知中过滤掉。我们只会看⻅我们知道的东⻄，还
要减去被恐惧所阻挡的信息，其它东⻄我们都看不⻅。简单地说，概
率很难理解，如果要把概率融于⼀个⼈的思想策略，确实要花很多精
⼒。⼤部分交易者都不是很理解。结果是，他们以为他们懂概率，但
其实不懂，因为他们只是懂⼀些概念。
i've worked with hundreds of traders who mistakenly assumed they thought
in probabilities, but didn't. here is an example of a trader i worked with
whom i'll call bob. bob is a certified trading advisor (cta) who manages
approximately $50 million in investments. he's been in the business for
almost 30 years. he came to one of my workshops because he was never
able to produce more than a 12- to 18-percent annual return on the accounts
he managed. this was an adequate return, but bob was extremely dissatisfied
because his analytical abilities suggested that he should be achieving an
annual return of 150 to 200 percent.
我和⼏百个交易者沟通过，他们错误地以为他们⽤概率思考，但其实
没有。我有个案例，他叫鲍伯。鲍伯是注册交易顾问，他管理的投资
有 5000 万。他已经做了快 30 年了。他去我的⼯作室找我，因为他⽆法
实现 12--18% 的年收益。这个收益不错，但鲍伯不满意，因为他的分析
能⼒说明他的年收益应该是 150--200% 。
i would describe bob as being well-versed in the nature of probabilities. in
other words, he understood the concepts, but he didn't function from a
probabilistic perspective. shortly after attending the workshop, he called to
ask me for some advice. here is the entry from my journal written
immediately after that phone conversation.
应该说鲍伯⾮常精通概率。换句话说，他知道这个概念，但是他的操
作和概率⽆关。他去了我的⼯作室之后不久，他打电话给我，叫我给
点建议。通完电话以后，我⽴刻做了这些记录。

9-28-95: bob called with a problem. he put on a belly trade and put his stop
in the market. the market traded about a third of the way to his stop and
then went back to his entry point, where he decided to bail out of the trade.
almost immediately after he got out, the bellies went 500 points in the
direction of this trade, but of course he was out of the market. he didn't
understand what was going on.
95 年 9 ⽉ 28 ⽇，鲍伯打电话来，他有问题。他建了⼀个很⼤的仓位，设
置了⽌损。市场向他的⽌损点前进了三分之⼀，然后⼜回到了进场
点，此时他觉得要保住⾃⼰的资⾦。当他平仓时，市场涨了 500 点，当
然了，他没有跟上去。他不明⽩为什么。
first, i asked him what was at risk. he didn't understand the question. he
assumed that he had accepted the risk because he put in a stop. i responded
that just because he put in a stop it didn't mean that he had truly accepted
the risk of the trade. there are many things that can be at risk: losing money,
being wrong, not being perfect, etc., depending on one's underlying
motivation for trading. i pointed out that a person's beliefs are always
revealed by their actions. we can assume that he was operating out of a
belief that to be a disciplined trader one has to define the risk and put a stop
in. and so he did. but a person can put in a stop and at the same time not
believe that he is going to be stopped out or that the trade will ever work
against him, for that matter.
⾸先，我问他什么是⻛险。他不明⽩我在问什么。他认为他接受了⻛
险，因为下了⽌损单。我回应说，虽然他下了⽌损单，但他并没有真
正接受⻛险。可能有很多⻛险：亏钱、犯错、不够完美等等，根据每
个⼈交易的动机不同⽽不同。我指出，⼀个⼈的⾏为总是在反应他的
信念。我们可以想象他认为⾃⼰是⼀个有纪律的交易者，他衡量了⻛
险，下了⽌损单。他确实是这么做的。但是，不能下了⽌损单⼜同时
怀疑⾃⼰要被洗出去是不对的，或者怀疑市场和⾃⼰作对也是不对
的。

by the way he described the situation, it sounded to me as if this is exactly
what happened to him. when he put on the trade, he didn't believe he would
be stopped out. nor did he believe the market would trade against him. in
fact, he was so adamant about this, that when the market came back to his
entry point, he got out of the trade to punish the market with an "i'll show
you" attitude for even going against him by one tic.
当他描述他的状况时，情况就是这样。当他建仓时，他不相信⾃⼰会
被洗出去。也不相信市场在和他作对。实际上，他很固执，当市场回
到他的进场点时，他平仓了，想惩罚市场，因为市场和他作对了。
after i pointed this out to him, he said this was exactly the attitude he had
when he took off the trade. he said that he had been waiting for this
particular trade for weeks and when the market finally got to this point, he
thought it would immediately reverse. i responded by reminding him to
look at the experience as simply pointing the way to something that he
needs to learn. a prerequisite for thinking in probabilities is that you accept
the risk, because if you don't, you will not want to face the possibilities that
you haven't accepted, if and when they do present themselves.
当我指出来之后，他说他平仓时确实是这么想的。他说他等这个机会
等了⼏周，当机会到来时，他以为市场会⽴刻反转。我提醒他要学习
这⽅⾯的体验。概率思考的前提是接受⻛险，因为如果你不接受⻛
险，当⻛险发⽣时，你就不愿意⾯对⻛险。
when you've trained your mind to think in probabilities, it means you have
fully accepted all the possibilities (with no internal resistance or conflict)
and you always do something to take the unknown forces into account.
thinking this way is virtually impossible unless you've done the mental
work necessary to "let go" of the need to know what is going to happen next
or the need to be right on each trade. in fact, the degree by which you think
you know, assume you know, or in any way need to know what is going to
happen next, is equal to the degree to which you will fail as a trader.

⼀旦你训练你的思想思考概率，你就完全接受了概率（不会有内在的
阻⼒或冲突），你就会综合考虑未知因素。做到这点不容易，你不能
⽼是想下⼀步会如何，你不能总是想⾃⼰要如何做到正确。实际上，
下⼀步会如何，不管你以为你知道多少，都等于你会失败。
traders who have learned to think in probabilities are confident of their
overall success, because they commit themselves to taking every trade that
conforms to their definition of an edge. they don't attempt to pick and
choose the edges they think, assume, or believe are going to work and act
on those; nor do they avoid the edges that for whatever reason they think,
assume, or believe aren't going to work. if they did either of those things,
they would be contradicting their belief that the "now" moment situation is
always unique, creating a random distribution between wins and losses on
any given string of edges. they have learned, usually quite painfully, that
they don't know in advance which edges are going to work and which ones
aren't. they have stopped trying to predict outcomes. they have found that
by taking every edge, they correspondingly increase their sample size of
trades, which in turn gives whatever edge they use ample opportunity to
play itself out in their favor, just like the casinos.
学习概率思想的交易者对成功是有信⼼的，因为他们愿意去抓住⾃⼰
定义的优势。他们不会去挑选他们以为有⽤的机会，也不会避免他们
以为没⽤的机会。如果他们这么做了，他们就违反了这个信念， " 现
在 " 是独特的，对于任何机会，它产⽣的输赢结果都是随机的。他们痛
苦地学习并明⽩了，任何优势都⽆法提前知道有⽤还是没⽤。他们不
再预测结果。他们发现只要抓住每个优势，多次交易，最终都会赚
钱，和赌场⼀样。
on the other hand, why do you think unsuccessful traders are obsessed with
market analysis. they crave the sense of certainty that analysis appears to
give them. although few would admit it, the truth is that the typical trader
wants to be right on every single trade. he is desperately trying to create
certainty where it just doesn't exist. the irony is that if he completely
accepted the fact that certainty doesn't exist, he would create the certainty
he craves: he would be absolutely certain that certainty doesn't exist.

相反，为何你认为不成功的交易者总是在分析市场。他们渴望分析的
确定性。虽然只有少数⼈会承认，典型的交易者希望⾃⼰每笔交易都
对。他极度希望制造并不存在的确定性。讽刺的是，如果他完全相信
确定性不存在，他就制造他⾃⼰渴望的确定性：他必须绝对地确定确
定性不存在。
when you achieve complete acceptance of the uncertainty of each edge and
the uniqueness of each moment, your frustration with trading will end.
furthermore, you will no longer be susceptible to making all the typical
trading errors that detract from your potential to be consistent and destroy
your sense of self-confidence. for example not defining the risk before
getting into a trade is by far the most common of all trading errors, and
starts the whole process of trading from an inappropriate perspective. in
light of the fact that anything can happen, wouldn't it make perfect sense to
decide before executing a trade what the market has to look, sound, or feel
like to tell you your edge isn't working? so why doesn't the typical trader
decide to do it or do it every single time?
⼀旦你接受了不确定性，你交易时的挫折感就消失了。⽽且，你不再
犯错，也不会失去信⼼。⽐如，在交易前不衡量⻛险是最普遍的错
误，交易思想就错了。既然任何事都会发⽣，那么在交易前决定什么
是你的优势是不是很完美呢？那么，为什么典型的交易者总是犯错？
i have already given you the answer in the last chapter, but there's more to it
and there's also some tricky logic involved, but the answer is simple. the
typical trader won't predefine the risk of getting into a trade because he
doesn't believe it's necessary. the only way he could believe "it isn't
necessary" is if he believes he knows what's going to happen next. the
reason he believes he knows what's going to happen next is because he
won't get into a trade until he is convinced that he's right. at the point where
he's convinced the trade will be a winner, it's no longer necessary to define
the risk (because if he's right, there is no risk).
上⼀章已经给出了答案，但是还有更多的东⻄要讲，但是答案是简单
的。典型的交易者不提前衡量⻛险是因为他觉得没有必要。既然他知

道结果是什么，他就认为衡量⻛险是没有必要的。因为如果他不确信
他是对的，他是不会交易的。他确信他是赢家，所以没有必要衡量⻛
险（因为如果他是对的，那么就没有⻛险）。
typical traders go through the exercise of convincing themselves that they're
right before they get into a trade, because the alternative (being wrong) is
simply unacceptable. remember that our minds are wired to associate. as a
result, being wrong on any given trade has the potential to be associated
with any (or every) other experience in a trader's life where he's been
wrong. the implication is that any trade can easily tap him into the
accumulated pain of every time he has been wrong in his life. given the
huge backlog of unresolved, negative energy surrounding what it means to
be wrong that exists in most people, it's easy to see why each and every
trade can literally take on the significance of a life or death situation.
典型的交易者在交易前确认他是对的，因为犯错是不能接受的。记住
我们的思想是有联想能⼒的。在交易时犯错会和其它⽣活中的错误联
系在⼀起的。这就是说，任何交易者都会触及到⾃⼰的痛苦。考虑到
⼤量的未解的，消极的能量存在于⼤部分⼈⾝上，就不难理解为何每
笔交易都会如此重要或置⼈于死地。
so, for the typical trader, determining what the market would have to look,
sound, or feel like to tell him that a trade isn't working would create an
irreconcilable dilemma. on one hand, he desperately wants to win and the
only way he can do that is to participate, but the only way he will
participate is if he's sure the trade will win.
所以，对于典型的交易者来说，决定什么市场适合交易是⼀个⽆法协
调的两难处境。另⼀⽅⾯，但极度希望赢，唯⼀的办法就是期待，但
他期待的⽅法就是这笔交易是否会赢。
on the other hand, if he defines his risk, he is willfully gathering evidence
that would negate something he has already convinced himself of. he will
be contradicting the decision-making process he went through to convince
himself that the trade will work. if he exposed himself to conflicting

information, it would surely create some degree of doubt about the viability
of the trade. if he allows himself to experience doubt, it's very unlikely he
will participate. if he doesn't put the trade on and it turns out to be a winner,
he will be in extreme agony. for some people, nothing hurts more than an
opportunity recognized but missed because of self-doubt. for the typical
trader, the only way out of this psychological dilemma is to ignore the risk
and remain convinced that the trade is right.
另⼀⽅⾯，如果他衡量了⻛险，他会找证据证明没有⻛险。他会体验
痛苦的⼼理过程，以证明交易可⾏。如果他⼜碰到了⼀些有冲突的信
息，他⼜会对交易的可⾏性产⽣怀疑。如果他产⽣了怀疑，他就不会
交易。如果他不交易，⽽交易⼜是赚钱的，他会超级痛苦。对有些⼈
来说，看⻅了机会，但因为⾃我怀疑⽽错过的话，那是最痛苦的。对
于典型的交易者，唯⼀脱离两难的⽅法就是忽视⻛险，认为⾃⼰的交
易是对的。
if any of this sounds familiar, consider this: when you're convincing
yourself that you're right, what you're saying to yourself is, "i know who's
in this market and who's about to come into this market. i know what they
believe about what is high or what is low. furthermore, i know each
individual's capacity to act on those beliefs (the degree of clarity or relative
lack of inner conflict), and with this knowledge, i am able to determine how
the actions of each of these individuals will affect price movement in its
collective form a second, a minute, an hour, a day, or a week from now."
looking at the process of convincing yourself that you're right from this
perspective, it seems a bit absurd, doesn't it?
如果这听起来熟悉，想想：当你确信⾃⼰是对的，你就会对⾃⼰
说： " 我知道谁在市场⾥⾯，我知道谁会进场。我知道他们认为的⾼低
各是多少。⽽且，我知道每个⼈的信念（清醒程度或内部冲突的程
度），根据这些知识，我就能知道每秒、每分、每⼩时、每天或每周
价格的波动情况。 " 看看这个过程，是不是有点荒谬？

for the traders who have learned to think in probabilities, there is no
dilemma. predefining the risk doesn't pose a problem for these traders
because they don't trade from a right or wrong perspective. they have
learned that trading doesn't have anything to do with being right or wrong
on any individual trade. as a result, they don't perceive the risks of trading
in the same way the typical trader does.
对于已经学习了概率的交易者，没有两难的情况。提前衡量⻛险不是
问题，因为他们的交易不是为了对或错。他们明⽩了交易和单笔的对
错⽆关。结果就是，他们和典型的交易者对⻛险的看法不同。
any of the best traders (the probability thinkers) could have just as much
negative energy surrounding what it means to be wrong as the typical
trader. but as long as they legitimately define trading as a probability game,
their emotional responses to the outcome of any particular trade are
equivalent to how the typical trader would feel about flipping a coin, calling
heads, and seeing the coin come up tails. a wrong call, but for most people
being wrong about predicting the flip of a coin would not tap them into the
accumulated pain of every other time in their lives they had been wrong.
最优秀的交易者和典型的交易者想法不同。⼀旦他们认为交易是概率
的游戏，他们交易时的情绪反应就和猜硬币的正反⾯时猜错了⼀样。
对于⼤部分⼈来说，猜错了硬币不会发展成⽣活中的痛苦。
why? most people know that the outcome of a coin toss is random. if you
believe the outcome is random, then you naturally expect a random
outcome. randomness implies at least some degree of uncertainty. so when
we believe in a random outcome, there is an implied acceptance that we
don't know what that outcome will be. when we accept in advance of an
event that we don't know how it will turn out, that acceptance has the effect
of keeping our expectations neutral and open-ended.
为什么？⼤部分⼈都知道掷硬币的结果是随机的。如果你相信是随机
的，那么你就知道结果是随机的。随机意味着⼀定程度的不确定性。
所以，当我们相信是随机的，那就说明我们不知道结果是什么。⼀旦

我们接受了我们不知道⼀件事的结果，这种接受让我们保持中性和开
放的期望。
now we're getting down to the very core of what ails the typical trader. any
expectation about the markets behavior that is specific, well-defined, or
rigid - instead of being neutral and open-ended - is unrealistic and
potentially damaging. i define an unrealistic expectation as one that does
not correspond with the possibilities available from the market's
perspective. if each moment in the market is unique, and anything is
possible, then any expectation that does not reflect these boundary-less
characteristics is unrealistic.
现在我们谈到了重点，让典型的交易者头痛的是什么。任何对市场的
预期，如果是确切的、明确的或不变的 -- 不是中性和开放的 -- 都是不现
实的，有可能是毁坏性的。不现实的期望就是不符合市场的概率。如
果每个时刻都是独特的，任何事都有可能，那么不反应这些特点的期
望就是不现实的。
managing expectations
管理期望
the potential damage caused by holding unrealistic expectations comes from
how it affects the way we perceive information. expectations are mental
representations of what some future moment will look, sound, taste, smell,
or feel like. expectations come from what we know. this makes sense,
because we can't expect something that we have no knowledge or
awareness of. what we know is synonymous with what we have learned to
believe about the ways in which the external environment can express itself.
what we believe is our own personal version of the truth. when we expect
something, we are projecting out into the future what we believe to be true.
we are expecting the outside environment a minute, an hour, a day, a week,
or a month from now to be the way we have represented it in our minds.

持有不现实的期望会影响我们认知信息的⽅法，造成损害。期望就是
对未来的感觉，包括看到的、听到的、感觉到的、闻到的或感受到
的。期望来⾃我们的已知事物。这是有意义的，因为我们不可能根据
我们不知道的东⻄来期待什么结果。我们知道的东⻄就是我们从外⾯
学到的东⻄。我们相信的东⻄就是我们个⼈对事实的看法。当我们期
待什么东⻄时，我们预期的是未来的事实。我们因为从现在开始每分
钟、每⼩时、每天、每周、每⽉都是我们想的那样。
we have to be careful about what we project out into the future, because
nothing else has the potential to create more unhappiness and emotional
misery than an unfulfilled expectation. when things happen exactly as you
expect them to, how do you feel? the response is generally wonderful
(including feelings like happiness, joy, satisfaction, and a greater sense of
well-being), unless, of course, you were expecting something dreadful and
it manifested itself. conversely, how do you feel when your expectations are
not fulfilled? the universal response is emotional pain. everyone
experiences some degree of anger, resentment, despair, regret,
disappointment, dissatisfaction, or betrayal when the environment doesn't
turn out to be exactly as we expected it to be (unless, of course, we are
completely surprised by something much better than we imagined).
对⾃⼰的期望要⼩⼼，因为当期望落空时，是很痛苦的。当你的期望
实现了，你有什么感觉？你的反应将是⾮常好的（包括幸福、快乐、
满⾜、舒适），除⾮你期待的是可怕的事。相反，如果你的期望落
空，你有什么感觉？普遍的反应就是情绪上的痛苦。当环境产⽣的结
果不是我们想的那样时，每个⼈都体会过⼀定程度的愤怒、怨恨、绝
望、后悔、失望、不满或背叛（除⾮事实⽐想象的还要好，让我们感
到吃惊）。
here's where we run into problems. because our expectations come from
what we know, when we decide or believe that we know something, we
naturally expect to be right. at that point, we're no longer in a neutral or
open state of mind, and it's not difficult to understand why. if we're going to
feel great if the market does what we expect it to do, or feel horrible if it

doesn't, then we're not exactly neutral or open-minded. quite the contrary,
the force of the belief behind the expectation will cause us to perceive
market information in a way that confirms what we expect (we naturally
like feeling good); and our pain-avoidance mechanisms will shield us from
information that doesn't confirm what we expect (to keep us from feeling
bad).
我们是这样遇到问题的。因为我们的期望来⾃我们知道的事物，当我
们决定或相信我们知道⼀些事的时候，我们⾃然希望⾃⼰是对的。此
时，我们的思想状态不再是中性的或开放的，很难明⽩为什么。如果
市场如我所愿，我们感到不错；或者是市场没有如我所愿，则感觉不
好，那么我们就不是中性的或开放的。相反，期望后⾯信念的⼒量会
让我们确信我们期待的东⻄（我们总是感觉很好），我们的痛苦⾃动
防护系统会屏蔽我们不喜欢的信息（以免我们⼼情不好）。
as i've already indicated, our minds are designed to help us avoid pain, both
physical and emotional. these pain-avoidance mechanisms exist at both
conscious and subconscious levels. for example, if an object is coming
toward your head, you react instinctively to get out of the way. ducking
does not require a conscious decision-making process. on the other hand, if
you clearly see the object and have time to consider the alternatives, you
may decide to catch the object, bat it away with your hand, or duck. these
are examples of how we protect ourselves from physical pain.
正如我之前所说，我们的思想天⽣就喜欢回避痛苦，在⾁体上和情绪
上都是这样。⽆论是有意识的，还是⽆意识的，这种避免痛苦的⾃动
系统都存在。⽐如，如果有东⻄向你的头部⻜来，你会本能地让开。
躲避并不需要有意识的思考过程。另⼀⽅⾯，如果你能明显地看⻅物
体，⽽且你有时间思考变通的⽅法，你也许会决定抓住这个物体，⽤
有挡开它或躲避它。这就是我们避免⾝体受苦的案例。
protecting ourselves from emotional or mental pain works in the same way,
except that we are now protecting ourselves from information. for example,
the market expresses information about itself and its potential to move in a

particular direction. if there's a difference between what we want or expect
and what the market is offering or making available, then our pain-
avoidance mechanisms kick in to compensate for the differences. as with
physical pain, these mechanisms operate at both the conscious and
subconscious levels.
我们避免⾃⼰遭受精神和精神痛苦的道理是⼀样的，除⾮我们在回避
⼀些信息。⽐如，市场⽤⾃⼰的⽅式表达信息，以说明它可能波动的
⽅向。如果市场提供的东⻄和我们想要的或期待的不⼀样，那么我们
的痛苦⾃动防范系统就会起作⽤以弥补这种差别。和⾝体上的痛苦⼀
样，⽆论是有意识，还是⽆意识，这个系统都会起作⽤。
to protect ourselves from painful information at the conscious level, we
rationalize, justify, make excuses, willfully gather information that will
neutralize the significance of the conflicting information, get angry (to ward
off the conflicting information), or just plain lie to ourselves.
为了避免痛苦的信息，对于信息，我们就会把它合理化、正常化、找
借⼝，还⾃⼰收集信息以中和冲突的信息，甚⾄发怒（这样可以回避
冲突的信息），或对⾃⼰撒谎。
at the subconscious level, the pain-avoidance process is much more subtle
and mysterious. at this level, our minds may block our ability to see other
alternatives, even though in other circumstances we would be able to
perceive them. now, because they are in conflict with what we want or
expect, our pain-avoidance mechanisms can make them disappear (as if
they didn't exist). to illustrate this phenomenon, the best example is one i
have already given you: we are in a trade where the market is moving
against us. in fact, the market has established a trend in the opposite
direction to what we want or expect. ordinarily, we would have no problem
identifying or perceiving this pattern if it weren't for the fact that the market
was moving against our position. but the pattern loses its significance
(becomes invisible) because we find it too painful to acknowledge.

下意识状态下，回避痛苦的过程⽐较微妙和神奇。在下意识状态，我
们的思想会阻⽌我们看⻅其它可能的选择，如果在其它情况下，我们
是可以看⻅的。因为它们和我们想要或期待的有冲突，我们的痛苦回
避系统会让它们消失（好像它们并不存在）。为了说明这个现象，最
好的案例是我告诉你的：我们交易时，市场在和我们作对。实际上，
市场的趋势和我们想要的或期待的相反。最初，我们确认和看出模式
是没有问题的，也就是市场和我们想要的或期待的相反。但是，因为
我们很难接受这点，我们就不会看出这个模式（消失了）。
to void the pain, we narrow our focus of attention and concentrate on
information that keeps us out of pain, regardless of how insignificant or
minute. in the meantime, the information that clearly indicates the presence
of a trend and the opportunity to trade in the direction of that trend becomes
invisible. the trend doesn't disappear from physical reality, but our ability to
perceive it does. our pain-avoidance mechanisms block our ability to define
and interpret what the market is doing as a trend.
为了避免痛苦，我们把焦点缩⼩，聚焦于没有痛苦的信息，也不管这
些信息有没有多少价值。同时，清楚地指出有趋势，有机会的信息则
消失了。趋势实际上并没有消失，但是我们的认知能⼒消失了。我们
的痛苦回避系统让我们没有能⼒定义和解读趋势。
the trend will then stay invisible until the market either reverses in our favor
or we are forced out of the trade because the pressure of losing too much
money becomes unbearable. it's not until we are either out of the trade or
out of danger that the trend becomes apparent, as well as all the
opportunities to make money by trading in the
如果不是因为交易者害怕亏损太多，被迫平仓，或者是趋势反转了，
他是看不⻅已经存在的趋势的。只有当我们平仓时，或没有危险时，
我们才能看清趋势，就像交易时的赚钱机会 …… （张轶注：英⽂原⽂
在此处缺失）

all the distinctions that would otherwise be perceivable become perfectly
clear, after the fact, when there is no longer anything for our minds to
protect us from.
当没有任何东⻄来让思想保护我们时，我们就能清晰地看⻅所有的特
征。
n self-protective pain-avoidance mechanisms, because they're natural
functions of the way our minds operate. there may be times when we are
protecting ourselves from information that has the potential to bring up
deep-seated emotional wounds or trauma that we're just not ready to face, or
don't have the appropriate skills or resources to deal with. in these cases,
our natural mechanisms are serving us well. but more often, our pain-
avoidance mechanisms are just protecting us from information that would
indicate that our expectations do not correspond with what is available from
the environments perspective. this is where our pain-avoidance mechanisms
do us a disservice, especially as traders.

我们都很容易陷⼊⾃我保护，回避痛苦的状态，因为我们的思想天⽣
就是这样运作的。很多时候，对于伤害我们的信息，对于我们不能处
理的信息，我们就会采取回避的态度。这些时候，我们天⽣的系统能
很好地保护我们。但很多时候，我们的痛苦回避系统只是让我们远离
不利于我们的信息，这样的信息表明我们的期望和市场不⼀致。这是
痛苦回避系统对我们的伤害，对交易者更是如此。
to understand this concept, ask yourself what exactly about market
information is threatening. is it threatening because the market actually
expresses negatively charged information as an inherent characteristic of
the way it exists? it may seem that way, but at the most fundamental level,
what the market gives us to perceive are up-tics and down-tics or up-bars
and down-bars. these up and down tics form patterns that represent edges.
now, are any of these tics or the patterns they form negatively charged?
again, it may certainly seem that way, but from the market's perspective the
information is neutral. each up-tic, down-tic, or pattern is just information,
telling us the market's position. if any of this information had a negative

charge as an inherent characteristic of the way it exists, then wouldn't
everyone exposed to it experience emotional pain?
要想明⽩这个概念，要问问你⾃⼰，市场信息的威胁是什么。是不是
说市场天⽣就充满了消极的信⼼？看起来好像是这样的，但基本上，
市场提供的就是上涨⼏个基点，下跌⼏个基点或者是上涨的 k 线，下跌
的 k 线。这些上涨和下跌的模式代表了优势。是不是所有的涨跌和模式
都是消极的呢？同样，看起来好像是这样的，但从市场的⾓度来看，
信息是中性的。每上涨⼀个基点，下跌⼀个基点，或者模式，它们只
是信息，这些信息告诉我们市场的点位。如果有任何信息是消极的，
那么是不是每个⼈都要承受情绪上的痛苦？
for example, if both you and i get hit on the head with a solid object, there
probably wouldn't be much difference in how we would feel. we'd both be
in pain. any part of our bodies coming into contact with a solid object with
some degree of force will cause anyone with a normal nervous system to
experience pain. we share the experience because our bodies are
constructed in basically the same way. the pain is an automatic
physiological response to the impact with a tangible object. information in
the form of words or gestures expressed by the environment, or up and
down tics expressed by the market, can be just as painful as being hit with a
solid object; but there's an important difference between information and
objects. information is not tangible. information doesn't consist of atoms
and molecules. to experience the potential effects of information, whether
negative or positive, requires an interpretation.
⽐如，如果你我都被硬物击中了头部，那么感觉应该差不多。我们都
很痛。任何⼈，只要⾝体的任何部分碰到了有⼒的硬物，我们的神经
系统都会感受到痛觉。我们都有痛觉，是因为我们的⾝体结构都是差
不多的。当被实物碰撞时，痛觉是⾃动的⼼理反应。信息就是环境的
词语或⼿势表达，或者是市场⽤涨跌来表达，就像被硬物击中⼀样，
会有痛觉的。但是信息和物体有重⼤的区别。信息不是实物。信息不

是由原⼦和分⼦组成。要想体会信息的作⽤，不管是积极的，还是消
极的，都需要对它有解读能⼒。
the interpretations we make are functions of our unique mental frameworks.
everyone's mental framework is unique for two fundamental reasons. first,
all of us were born with different genetically encoded behavior and
personality characteristics that cause us to have different needs from one
another. how positively or negatively and to what degree the environment
responds to these needs creates experiences unique to each individual.
second, everyone is exposed to a variety of environmental forces. some of
these forces are similar from one individual to the next, but none are exactly
the same.
我们的解读来⾃我们独特的思想结构。每个⼈的思想结构都是独特
的，有两个基本的原因。⾸先，我们出⽣时的基因不同，⾏为和个性
也不同，导致我们的需求不同。对于这些需求，环境的反应是积极的
或消极的，它们的影响程度对每个⼈都不同。第⼆，每个⼈⾯对的环
境⼒量不同。有些⼒量差不多，但有些不完全⼀样。
if you consider the number of possible combinations of genetically encoded
personality characteristics we can be born with, in relation to the almost
infinite variety of environmental forces we can encounter throughout our
lives, all of which contribute to the construction of our mental framework,
then it's not difficult to see why there is no universal mental framework
common to everyone. unlike our bodies, which have a common molecular
structure that experiences physical pain, there is no universal mind-set to
assure us that we will share the potential negative or positive effects of
information in the same way.
如果你考虑到每个⼈基因组合的不同，个性的不同，以及我们此⽣体
验的⽆穷环境⼒量，这些都对我们的细想结构有影响，那么我们就不
难发现为什么每个⼈的思想结构都不⼀样。它和我们的⾝体也不同，
⾝体由普通的分⼦组成，能体会到痛觉，我们的思想则⽆法同样体会
积极的或消极的信息影响。

for example, someone could be projecting insults at you, intending to cause
you to feel emotional pain. from the environment's perspective, this is
negatively charged information. will you experience the intended negative
effects? not necessarily! you have to be able to interpret the information as
negative to experience it as negative. what if this person is insulting you in
a language you don't understand, or is using words you don't know the
meaning of? would you feel the intended pain? not until you built a
framework to define and understand the words in a derogatory way. even
then, we can't assume that what you'd feel would correspond to the intent
behind the insult. you could have a framework to perceive the negative
intent, but instead of feeling pain, you might experience a perverse type of
pleasure. i've encountered many people who, simply for their own
amusement, like to get people riled up with negative emotions. if they
happen to be insulted in the process, it creates a sense of joy because then
they know how successful they've been.
⽐如，有⼈想侮辱你，让你觉得痛苦。从环境的⾓度来说，这是消极
的信息。你会感受到这个消极的影响吗？不⼀定！你必须有能⼒解读
这个信息，并认为是消极的。如果侮辱你的⼈⽤你不懂的语⾔，或者
是你不明⽩的词汇，结果会如何？你能感受到痛苦吗？如果你不理解
这个词汇的含义，你是不会感到痛苦的。即使如此，我们也不能说你
的感受和侮辱你的意图是对应的。你也许会觉得那是不好的企图，但
你并不痛苦，你也许还有点⾼兴。我⻅过很多⼈，为了⾃⼰的快乐⽽
让别⼈充满了消极的情绪。如果他们此时被侮辱了，他们会觉得很⾼
兴，因为他们知道⾃⼰成功了。
a person expressing genuine love is projecting positively charged
information into the environment. let's say the intent behind the expression
of these positive feelings is to convey affection, endearment, and friendship.
are there any assurances that the person or persons this positively charged
information is being projected toward will interpret and experience it as
such? no, there aren't. a person with a very low sense of self-esteem, or
someone who experienced a great deal of hurt and disappointment in
relationships, will often misinterpret an expression of genuine love as
something else. in the case of a person with low self-esteem, if he doesn't

believe he deserves to be loved in such a way, he will find it difficult, if not
impossible, to interpret what he is being offered as genuine or real. in the
second case, where one has a significant backlog of hurt and
disappointment in relationships, a person could easily come to believe that a
genuine expression of love is extremely rare, if not non-existent, and would
probably interpret the situation either as someone wanting something or
trying to take advantage of him in some way.
⼀个表达真诚爱意的⼈是在向环境传递积极的信息。我们可以说这些
表达是为了传递爱⼼、钟爱和友谊。能不能保证这些信息能被⼈们正
确地传达和感受到？不能。⼀个不太⾃信的⼈，或者在感情上受过伤
害的⼈，通常会错误地理解别⼈的爱意。对于不太⾃信的⼈来说，如
果他觉得⾃⼰不值得别⼈的爱，那么他就会很难去相信别⼈爱意的真
假。第⼆种情况，对于感情受伤的，或对友谊失望的⼈，他会觉得真
正的爱太少了，对于别⼈的爱意，他会觉得是对⽅想要什么，或者是
想占他的便宜。
i'm sure that i don't have to go on and on, sighting examples of all the
possible ways there are to misinterpret what someone is trying to
communicate to us or how what we express to someone can be
misconstrued and experienced in ways completely unintended by us. the
point that i am making is that each individual will define, interpret, and
consequently experience whatever information he is exposed to in his own
unique way. there's no standardized way to experience what the
environment may be offering - whether it's positive, neutral, or negative
information - simply because there is no standardized mental framework in
which to perceive information.
我相信没有必要再举例⼦说明了，这些沟通的误解，完全违背原来意
思的感受。我想说的要点是，每个⼈⽤⾃⼰独特的⽅式定义、解读和
体验所有的信息。没有标准的⽅式去体验环境提供的信息 -- 积极的、
中性的、或消极的信息 -- 因为我们的思想结构不是标准的，所以对信
息的解读不同。

consider that, as traders, the market offers us something to perceive at each
moment. in a sense, you could say that the market is communicating with
us. if we start out with the premise that the market does not generate
negatively charged information as an inherent characteristic of the way it
exists, we can then ask, and answer, the question, "what causes information
to take on a negative quality?" in other words, where exactly does the threat
of pain come from?
作为交易者，市场也随时在提供类似的东⻄。可以这么说，市场在和
我们沟通。如果⼀开始就认为市场天⽣不会产⽣消极的信息，我们可
以⾃问⾃答地问： " 是什么让信息变成了消极的？ " 换句话说，痛苦的
威胁来⾃哪⾥？
if it's not coming from the market, then it has to be coming from the way we
define and interpret the available information. defining and interpreting
information is a function of what we assume we know or what we believe
to be true. if what we know or believe is in fact true - and we wouldn't
believe it if it weren't - then when we project our beliefs out into some
future moment as an expectation, we naturally expect to be right.
如果不是来⾃市场，那么就来⾃我们定义和解读信息的⽅式。我们以
为我们定义和解读信息的⽅式是对的。如果我们知道或相信事实如此 -
- 否则就不会信 -- 那么当我们对未来有期望时，我们⾃然希望⾃⼰是对
的。
when we expect to be right, any information that doesn't confirm our
version of the truth automatically becomes threatening. any information that
has the potential to be threatening also has the potential to be blocked,
distorted, or diminished in significance by our pain-avoidance mechanisms.
it's this particular characteristic of the way our minds function that can
really do us a disservice. as traders, we can't afford to let our pain-
avoidance mechanisms cut us off from what the market is communicating
to us about what is available in the way of the next opportunity to get in, get
out, add to, or subtract from a position, just because it's doing something
that we don't want or expect.

当我们期待正确时，任何不符的信息⾃动变成了威胁。我们的痛苦回
避系统有可能会阻⽌、曲解或消灭不符的信息。这是我们思想的特
点，这个功能会害了我们。作为交易者，我们不能让痛苦回避系统把
我们和市场分开，不能因为我们不想要或不希望市场的信息，就掐断
了和市场的沟通。市场也许会告诉我们进场、出场、加仓、平仓等机
会的。
for example, when you're watching a market (one you rarely, if ever, trade
in) with no intention of doing anything, do any of the up or down tics cause
you to feel angry, disappointed, frustrated, disillusioned, or betrayed in any
way? no! the reason is that there's nothing at stake. you're simply observing
information that tells you where the market is at that moment. if the up and
down tics that you're watching form into some sort of behavior pattern
you've learned to identify, don't you readily recognize and acknowledge the
pattern? yes, for the same reason: there's nothing at stake.
⽐如，当你看着市场，没有任何想法时，市场的涨跌会不会让你感到
愤怒、失望、受挫、⼤失所望或背叛？不会！原因是没有任何⻛险。
你只是在观察市场此刻的信息。如果市场的涨跌，形成的模式是你认
识的，你会认出这个模式吗？是的，因为没有⻛险。
there is nothing at stake because there's no expectation. you haven't
projected what you believe, assume, or think you know about that market
into some future moment. as a result, there's nothing to be either right about
or wrong about, so the information has no potential to take on a threatening
or negatively charged quality. with no particular expectation, you haven't
placed any boundaries on how the market can express itself. without any
mental boundaries, you will be making yourself available to perceive
everything you've learned about the nature of the ways in which the market
moves. there's nothing for your pain-avoidance mechanisms to exclude,
distort, or diminish from your awareness in order to protect you.
没有⻛险是因为你没有期望。你对市场的信念、假设和想法并没有投
射到未来。结果是，没有什么对错，所以信息也没有潜在的威胁或消

极性质。没有特别的期望，你对市场的表达⾏为没有任何限制。没有
思想限制，你可以通过市场的波动看⻅⾃⼰曾经学过的任何东⻄。没
有必要让痛苦回避系统来去除、曲解或消灭你的意识。
in my workshops, i always ask participants to resolve the following primary
trading paradox: in what way does a trader have to learn how to be rigid and
flexible at the same time? the answer is: we have to be rigid in our rules and
flexible in our expectations. we need to be rigid in our rules so that we gain
a sense of self-trust that can, and will always, protect us in an environment
that has few, if any, boundaries. we need to be flexible in our expectations
so we can perceive, with the greatest degree of clarity and objectivity, what
the market is communicating to us from its perspective. at this point, it
probably goes without saying that the typical trader does just the opposite:
he is flexible in his rules and rigid in his expectations. interestingly enough,
the more rigid the expectation, the more he has to either bend, violate, or
break his rules in order to accommodate his unwillingness to give up what
he wants in favor of what the market is offering.
在我的⼯作室，我总是要求参与者解决这个基本的⽭盾：交易者如何
能同时做到既死板⼜灵活？答案是：对原则死板，对期望灵活。我们
对原则死板，这样我们就能得到⾃信，这样可以免受没有限制的环境
影响。我们对期望灵活，我们可以清晰地，客观地看⻅市场在和我们
沟通什么。从这个⾓度来说，典型的交易者正好相反：对原则灵活，
对期望死板。有趣的是，对期望越死板，越需要歪曲、违反或打破⾃
⼰的原则，因为为了满⾜⾃⼰的愿望，就要放弃市场提供的东⻄。
eliminating the emotional risk
消灭情绪⻛险
to eliminate the emotional risk of trading, you have to neutralize your
expectations about what the market will or will not do at any given moment
or in any given situation. you can do this by being willing to think from the
markets perspective. remember, the market is always communicating in
probabilities. at the collective level, your edge may look perfect in every

respect; but at the individual level, every trader who has the potential to act
as a force on price movement can negate the positive outcome of that edge.
为了消灭交易时的情绪⻛险，你必须在任何状况下，任何时刻让你对
市场的期望中性化。你可以从市场的⾓度来思考。记住，市场总是对
概率进⾏交易。总体来说，你的优势也许看起来很完美；但是从个⼈
的⾓度来说，每个交易者的⾏为都有可能影响价格，他们的⾏为会改
变优势的结果。
to think in probabilities, you have to create a mental framework or mind-set
that is consistent with the underlying principles of a probabilistic
environment. a probabilistic mind-set pertaining to trading consists of five
fundamental truths.
为了思考概率，你必须创造⼀种思想结构或思维，它和市场概率的环
境是⼀致的。概率的思维和以下 5 个事实⼀致。
1. anything can happen.
2. you don't need to know what is going to happen next in order to make
money.
3. there is a random distribution between wins and losses for any given set
of variables that define an edge.
4. an edge is nothing more than an indication of a higher probability of one
thing happening over another.
5. every moment in the market is unique.
·                              1.         任何事都会发⽣。
·                              2.         为了赚钱，你不必知道下⼀步会如何。
·                              3.         对于任何被定义为优势的变数，在赢和亏之
间的分布都是随机的。

·                              4.         优势和⽐较⾼的概率是⼀个意思。
·                              5.         任何时刻，市场都是独特的。
keep in mind that your potential to experience emotional pain comes from
the way you define and interpret the information you're exposed to. when
you adopt these five truths, your expectations will always be in line with the
psychological realities of the market environment. with the appropriate
expectations, you will eliminate your potential to define and interpret
market information as either painful or threatening, and you thereby
effectively neutralize the emotional risk of trading.
请记住，你可能要体验精神痛苦，是因为你定义和解读信息的⽅式。
如果你接受了这 5 个事实，你的期望总是会和⼼理实际对应的。有了合
适的期望，你就不会把市场定义解读为痛苦的或威胁的，你也会有效
地中和交易的情绪⻛险。
the idea is to create a carefree state of mind that completely accepts the fact
that there are always unknown forces operating in the market. when you
make these truths a fully functional part of your belief system, the rational
part of your mind will defend these truths in the same way it defends any
other belief you hold about the nature of trading. this means that, at least at
the rational level, your mind will automatically defend against the idea or
assumption that you can know for sure what will happen next. it's a
contradiction to believe that each trade is a unique event with an uncertain
outcome and random in relationship to any other trade made in the past; and
at the same time to believe you know for sure what will happen next and to
expect to be right.
建⽴完全开放的思想，需要完全接受市场的⼒量总是未知的。如果你
把这些事实当作你信念系统的⼀部分，你的理性思想就会想你守卫其
它信念⼀样守卫这些事实。这意味着，⾄少在理性的时候，你的思想
会⾃动地阻⽌⼀些思想或假设，这些思想和假设让你以为你知道下⼀
步是什么。相信每笔交易都是独特的，结果是不确定的，是随机的，

同时⼜要相信你知道下⼀步是什么，你希望⾃⼰是正确的，这是很⽭
盾的。
if you really believe in an uncertain outcome, then you also have to expect
that virtually anything can happen. otherwise, the moment you let your
mind hold onto the notion that you know, you stop taking all of the
unknown variables into consideration. your mind won't let you have it both
ways. if you believe you know something, the moment is no longer unique.
if the moment isn't unique, then everything is known or knowable; that is,
there's nothing not to know. however, the moment you stop factoring in
what you don't or can't know about the situation instead of being available
to perceive what the market is offering, you make yourself susceptible to all
of the typical trading errors.
如果你真的相信不确定的结果，那么你就应该期待任何事都会发⽣。
否则，如果你的思想以为你知道，你就不会考虑所有的未知变数。你
的思想⽆法做到同时拥有两者。如果你相信你知道什么，这个过程不
再是独特的。如果这个过程不是独特的，那么任何事都能被知道，也
就是说，没有什么不能知道的。然⽽，如果你认为你知道，你就可能
犯所有典型的交易错误。
for example, if you really believed in an uncertain outcome, would you ever
consider putting on a trade without defining your risk in advance? would
you ever hesitate to cut a loss, if you really believed you didn't know? what
about trading errors like jumping the gun? how could you anticipate a
signal that hasn't yet manifested itself in the market, if you weren't
convinced that you were going to miss out?
⽐如，如果你真的相信不确定的结果，你会在交易前不衡量⻛险吗？
如果你真的相信你不知道，你在⽌损时会犹豫吗？提前进场或出场了
怎么办？如果你不确定会不会错过机会，你如何知道⼀个信号反映了
市场？
why would you ever let a winning trade turn into a loser, or not have a
systematic way of taking profits, if you weren't convinced the market was

going your way indefinitely? why would you hesitate to take a trade or not
put it on at all, unless you were convinced that it was a loser when the
market was at your original entry point? why would you break your money
management rules by trading too large a position relative to your equity or
emotional tolerance to sustain a loss, if you weren't positive that you had a
sure thing?
如果你不确信市场永远对你有利，为何你把赢利变成了亏损，为何不
兑现利润？当市场再次回到你的进场点，你知道没赚钱时，为何你犹
豫了？如果你不能肯定，为何你要违反资⾦管理原则，仓位过⼤，造
成情绪上不能忍受的亏损？
finally, if you really believed in a random distribution between wins and
losses, could you ever feel betrayed by the market? if you flipped a coin and
guessed right, you wouldn't necessarily expect to be right on the next flip
simply because you were right on the last. nor would you expect to be
wrong on the next flip if you were wrong on the last. because you believe in
a random distribution between the sequence of heads and tails, your
expectations would be perfectly aligned with the reality of the situation. you
would certainly like to be right, and if you were that would be great, but if
you were wrong then you would not feel betrayed by the flip, because you
know and accept that there are unknown variables at work that affect the
outcome. unknown means "not something your rational thinking process
can take into consideration in advance of the flip" except to fully accept that
you don't know. as a result, there is little, if any, potential to experience the
kind of emotional pain that wells up when you feel betrayed.
最有，如果你相信赢和亏的分布是随机的，你是否会觉得市场背叛了
你？如果你掷硬币并猜对了，你不必希望⾃⼰下次还能才对，因为你
上次猜对了。如果你上次错了，你希望下次还错吗。因为你知道硬币
的正反⾯是随机分布的，你的期望和现实结果是⼀致的。你当然希望
⾃⼰是对的，如果你对了，当然最好；但是如果你错了，你就感觉被
骗了，因为你知道并接受未知的变数在影响结果。未知意味着： " 你的

理想思考⽆法提前考虑到 " ，除⾮你完全承认你不知道。结果是，当你
感觉到背叛是，你不太会感受到精神痛苦。
as a trader, when you're expecting a random outcome, you will always be at
least a little surprised at whatever the market does - even if it conforms
exactly to your definition of an edge and you end up with a winning trade.
however expecting a random outcome doesn't mean that you can't use your
full reasoning and analytical abilities to project an outcome, or that you
can't guess what's going to happen next, or have a hunch or feeling about it,
because you can. furthermore, you can be right in each instance. you just
can't expect to be right. and if you are right, you can't expect that whatever
you did that worked the last time will work again the next time, even
though the situation may look, sound, or feel exactly the same.
作为交易者，你期待的是随机的结果，市场⾏为总是让你吃惊 -- 即使
你对优势的定义是对的，你的仓位是赚钱的。然⽽，期待随机的结果
并不代表你不能利⽤你的分析能⼒去预测结果，要么你猜测下⼀步是
什么，要么你能感觉到下⼀步是什么，因为你能。另外，你可以每次
都正确。你不能期待每次都正确。如果你是对的，你不能期待这次对
了，下次还对，即使状况看起来、听起来或感觉起来都是⼀样的。
anything that you are perceiving "now" in the market will never be exactly
the same as some previous experience that exists in your mental
environment. but that doesn't mean that your mind (as a natural
characteristic of the way it functions) won't try to make the two identical.
there will be similarities between the "now moment" and something that
you know from the past, but those similarities only give you something to
work with by putting the odds of success in your favor. if you approach
trading from the perspective that you don't know what will happen next,
you will circumvent your mind's natural inclination to make the "now
moment" identical to some earlier experience. as unnatural as it seems to do
so, you can't let some previous experience (either negative or extremely
positive) dictate your state of mind. if you do, it will be very difficult, if not
impossible, to perceive what the market is communicating from its
perspective.

在你的思想环境中，任何 " 现在 " 的市场都和以前的体验不同。但这不
是说你的思想不会把它们等同起来（这是⾃然特征）。 " 现在 " 和过去
总有点相似之处，但这些相似之处只是增加你成功的概率。如果你交
易时明⽩⾃⼰并不知道下⼀步是什么，你就要避免⾃⼰的思想把 " 现
在 " 和过去的体验等同起来。这样看起来不⾃然，你不能让以前的体验
指挥你的思想状况（不管是积极的，还是消极的）。如果你这么做，
就很那解读市场要和你沟通的内容。
when i put on a trade, all i expect is that something will happen. regardless
of how good i think my edge is, i expect nothing more than for the market
to move or to express itself in some way. however, there are some things
that i do know for sure. i know that based on the markets past behavior, the
odds of it moving in the direction of my trade are good or acceptable, at
least in relationship to how much i am willing to spend to find out if it does.
当我交易时，我期待会有什么结果。不管我的优势多么⼤，我都期望
市场做点什么。然⽽，有些事我不能肯定。我知道，根据市场过去的
⾏为，对我有利的波动概率⼤，⾄少我愿意承担这个成本。
i also know before getting into a trade how much i am willing to let the
market move against my position. there is always a point at which the odds
of success are greatly diminished in relation to the profit potential. at that
point, it's not worth spending any more money to find out if the trade is
going to work. if the market reaches that point, i know without any doubt,
hesitation, or internal conflict that i will exit the trade. the loss doesn't
create any emotional damage, because i don't interpret the experience
negatively. to me, losses are simply the cost of doing business or the
amount of money i need to spend to make myself available for the winning
trades. if, on the other hand, the trade turns out to be a winner, in most cases
i know for sure at what point i am going to take my profits. (if i don't know
for sure, i certainly have a very good idea.)
我同样知道，在建仓前，我可以接受多少的亏损。总是有⼀个点位，
在这个点位，利润减少，成功的概率降低。在这个点位，没有必要再