花钱去确认交易结果。如果市场到达这个点位，我将不再怀疑、犹
豫、或内⼼冲突，我将会平仓。亏损不会让我情绪受伤，因为我不把
这个看作是消极的。对我来说，亏损就是做⽣意的成本，或者是交易
成功前花出去的钱。如果相反，交易赢利了，我知道在哪⾥兑现利润
（如果我不肯定，那么我肯定有更好的主意）。
the best traders are in the "now moment" because there's no stress. there's
no stress because there's nothing at risk other than the amount of money
they are willing to spend on a trade. they are not trying to be right or trying
to avoid being wrong; neither are they trying to prove anything. if and when
the market tells them that their edges aren't working or that it's time to take
profits, their minds do nothing to block this information. they completely
accept what the market is offering them, and they wait for the next edge.
最优秀的交易者把握 " 现在 " ，因为没有压⼒。没有压⼒是因为他们知
道⾃⼰要亏多少。他们不会为了正确或避免犯错，他们也不会为了证
明什么。如果市场告诉他们优势不在了或应该兑现利润了，他们的思
想不会阻⽌这样的信息。他们完全接受这就是市场给他们的，他们等
待下⼀个优势。
Chapter 8 working with your beliefs

第  08 章  和信念⼀起⼯作
now the task before you is to properly integrate the five fundamental truths
presented in chapter 7 in your mental environment at a functional level. to
help you do that, we will take an in-depth look at beliefs - their nature,
properties, and characteristics. however, before we do that i will review and
organize the major concepts presented thus far into a much clearer and more
practical framework. what you learn from this and the next two chapters
will form the foundation for understanding everything you need to do to
achieve your goals as a trader.

现在你的任务就是把第 07 章的 5 个事实融于你的思想环境。为了帮助你
做到这点，我们可以深⼊看看你的信念 -- 它们的⾃然属性、性质、特
点。然⽽，在这之前，我想把这些主要的概念⽤清晰实⽤的结构组织
起来。本章和以后两章为你成为交易者打好基础。
defining the problem
给问题下定义
at the most fundamental level, the market is simply a series of up and down
tics that form patterns. technical analysis defines these patterns as edges.
any particular pattern defined as an edge is simply an indication that there is
a higher probability that the market will move in one direction over the
other. however, there is a major mental paradox here because a pattern
implies consistency, or, at least, a consistent outcome. but the reality is each
pattern is a unique occurrence. they may look (or measure) exactly the same
from one occurrence to the next, but the similarities are only on the surface.
the underlying force behind each pattern is traders, and the traders who
contribute to the formation of one pattern are always different from the
traders who contribute to the next; so the outcome of each pattern is random
relative to one another. our minds have an inherent design characteristic
(the association mechanism) that can make this paradox difficult to deal
with.
从最基本的⾓度来看，市场的涨涨跌跌形成模式。技术分析把这些模
式定义为优势。特定的模式说明了市场很可能往某个⽅向⾛。然⽽，
⽭盾的是，模式认为结果是持续⼀致的。也许它们看起来是⼀样的，
但这种相似只是表⾯的。每个模式下⾯都有交易者，每个模式下⾯的
交易者都不同，所以每个模式的结果也不同。我们思想天⽣的特征
（联想机制）让我们⽆法⾯对这个⽭盾。
now these edges, or the patterns they represent, flow by in every time
frame, making the market a never-ending stream of opportunities to get in,
get out (scratch a trade), take profits, cut losses, or add to or detract from a
position. in other words, from the market's perspective, each moment

presents each one of us traders with the opportunity to do something on our
own behalf.
现在这些模式的优势，每个时段都是变，让市场变得像没有⽌境的河
流，⾥⾯有很多机会，包括进场、出场、兑现利润，⽌损或加仓，减
仓。换句话说，从市场的⾓度来说，每⼀刻都有交易者认为是个机
会，该做点什么。
what prevents us from perceiving each "now moment" as an opportunity to
do something for ourselves or to act appropriately even when we do? our
fears! what is the source of our fears? we know its not the market, because
from the market's perspective, the up and down tics and the patterns they
create are neither positively or negatively charged. as a result, the up and
down tics themselves have no capacity to cause us to enter into any
particular state of mind (negative or positive), lose our objectivity, make
errors, or take us out of the opportunity flow.
当我们看⻅ " 现在 " 的机会，是什么在阻⽌我们⾏动呢？我们的恐惧！
什么是恐惧的根源？我们知道不是市场，因为从市场的⾓度来说，上
下波动，以及波动造成的模式要么是积极的，要么是消极的。结果
是，上下波动不会导致我们进⼊⼀种思想状态（积极的或消极的）、
失去客观、犯错，或错失机会。
if it's not the market that causes us to experience a negatively charged state
of mind, then what does cause it? the way we define and interpret the
information we perceive. if that's the case, then what determines what we
perceive and how we define and interpret that information? what we believe
or what we assume to be true. our beliefs working in conjunction with the
association and pain-avoidance mechanisms act as a force on our five
senses, causing us to perceive, define, and interpret market information in a
way that is consistent with what we expect. what we expect is synonymous
with what we believe or assume to be true. expectations are beliefs
projected into some future moment.

如果不是市场让我们体验到消极的思想，那么是什么呢？是我们定义
和解读信息的⽅式。如果是这样，那么是什么决定我们认知的东⻄
呢，我们是如何定义和解读信息的呢？我们相信的或假设的是真的。
我们的信念同时和联想，痛苦避免系统⼀起⼯作，成为影响我们五官
的⼒量，导致我们认知、定义和解读市场信息时是⼀致的。我们期待
的是我们相信或认为是真的东⻄。期待就是对未来的预期信念。
each moment from the market's perspective is unique; but if the information
being generated by the market is similar in quality, properties, or
characteristic to something that is already in our minds, the two sets of
information (outside and inside) automatically become linked. when this
connection is made, it triggers a state of mind (confidence, euphoria, fear,
terror, disappointment, regret, betrayal, etc.) that corresponds to whatever
belief, assumption, or memory the outside information was linked. this
makes it seem as if what is outside is exactly the same as whatever is
already inside of us.
从市场的⾓度来说，每个时刻都是独特的，但是，如果市场产⽣的信
息在特质上、属性上或特征上都和我们思想中的相似，那么这两套信
息（外部的和内部的）就联系起来了。当联系上以后，它触动了我们
的思想（⾃信、过度兴奋、恐惧、害怕、失望、后悔、背叛等等），
这些思想和信念、想象或记忆等外部信息相联系。这看起来似乎外部
的和我们思想内部的东⻄都是⼀样的。
it's our state of mind that makes the truth of whatever we're perceiving
outside of us (in the market) seem indisputable and beyond question. our
state of mind is always the absolute truth. if i feel confident, then i am
confident. if i feel afraid, then i am afraid. we can't dispute the quality of
energy flowing through our mind and body at any given moment. and
because i know as an indisputable fact how i feel, you could say that i also
know the truth of what i'm perceiving outside of me in the same moment.
the problem is that how we feel is always the absolute truth, but the beliefs
that triggered our state of mind or feeling may or may not be true relative to
the possibilities that exist in the market at any given moment.

是我们的思想状态让我们认识的事实变得不容置疑。我们的思想状态
总是对的。如果我觉得⾃信，那么我就⾃信。如果我觉得害怕，那么
我就害怕。我们⽆法和流过我们思想和⾝体的能量的性质做任何争
论。因为我知道我是如何感觉的，这是不容置疑的事实，同时你可以
说我也知道我对外部的认知事实。问题是，我们的感觉总是绝对的事
实，但是触动我们思想状态或感觉的信念也许和市场的概率是⼀致
的，也许不⼀致。
recall the example of the boy and the dog. the boy "knew" for an absolute
fact that each dog he encountered after the first was threatening, because of
the way he felt when one came into his field of awareness. these other dogs
did not cause his fear; his negatively charged memory working in
conjunction with the association and his pain-avoidance mechanism caused
his fear. he experienced his own version of the truth, although that did not
correspond with the possibilities that existed from the environment's
perspective. his belief about the nature of dogs was limited relative to the
possible characteristics and traits expressed by dogs. yet the state of mind
he experienced every time he encountered a dog caused him to believe thats
he "knew" exactly what to expect from them.
再回忆⼀下⼩孩和狗的例⼦。⼩孩 " 知道 " ⾃从第⼀只狗以后，每只狗
都是有威胁的，这是绝对的事实，因为这是他的意识感觉。其它狗并
没有引起他的害怕，他的消极的记忆和痛苦回避系统⼀起⼯作，让他
害怕。他体验的真实是他⾃⼰的版本，他并没有从环境的⾓度来思考
概率。他对狗的信念局限于狗的特点和特征。每次他和狗的体验都会
让他的思想相信他 " 了解 " 狗。
this same process causes us to believe that we "know" exactly what to
expect from die market, when the reality is there are always unknown
forces operating at every moment. the trouble is, the instant we think we
"know" what to expect, we simultaneously stop taking all the unknown
forces and die various possibilities created by those forces into
consideration. the unknown forces are other traders waiting to enter or exit
trades, based on their beliefs about the future. in other words, we really

can't know exactly what to expect from the market, until we can read the
minds of all the traders who have the potential to act as a force on price
movement. not a very likely possibility.
同样的过程让我们相信我们 " 了解 " 市场，事实是市场⾥⾯总是有未知
⼒量在运作。问题是，当我们以为我们 " 知道 " 期待的结果是什么时，
我们同时就停⽌了思考，思考未知⼒量和它们造成的各种概率。其他
交易者根据⾃⼰对未来的信念，准备进场，出场，他们就是未知的⼒
量。换句话说，我们真的不知道对市场有什么期待，除⾮我们能解读
所有交易者的思想。这是不太可能的。
as traders, we can't afford to indulge ourselves in any form of "i know what
to expect from the market." we can "know" exactly what an edge looks,
sounds, or feels like, and we can "know" exactly how much we need to risk
to find out if that edge is going to work. we can "know" that we have a
specific plan as to how we are going to take profits if a trade works. but
that's it! if what we think we know starts expanding to what the market is
going to do, we're in trouble. and all that's required to put us into a
negatively charged, "i know what to expect from the market" state of mind
is for any belief, memory, or attitude to cause us to interpret the up and
down tics or any market information as anything but an opportunity to do
something on our own behalf.
作为交易者，我们不能沉迷于 " 我知道市场会如何。 " 我们可以 " 知
道 " 优势看起来如何，听起来如何，感觉如何，我们可以 " 知道 " 我们可
以承受的⻛险，以确认优势是否有效。我们可以 " 知道 " 在赢利时如何
兑现利润，我们有具体的计划。但仅仅如此⽽已！如果我们想的东⻄
放到市场⾥⾯，我们就有⿇烦了。市场会把我们变成消极的， " 我知道
对市场的期待是什么 " ，这样的思想状态只是让我们的信念、记忆或态
度去解读市场的涨跌的信息，但机会需要我们⾃⼰去⾏动。
defining the terms
对⼏个说法下定义

what are the objectives?
什么是⽬标？
ultimately, of course, making money is everyone's objective. but if trading
were only a matter of making money, reading this book wouldn't be
necessary. putting on a winning trade or even a series of winning trades
requires absolutely no skill. on the other hand, creating consistent results
and being able to keep what we've created does require skill. making money
consistently is a by-product of acquiring and mastering certain mental
skills. the degree to which you understand this is the same degree to which
you will stop focusing on the money and focus instead on how you can use
your trading as a tool to master these skills.
当然了，赚钱是每个⼈的最终⽬标。但是，如果交易仅仅是赚钱的
事，那么就没有必要看这本书。进⾏⼀系列赚钱的交易根本不需要任
何技术。另⼀⽅⾯，实现持续⼀致的结果，并保住胜利果实确实需要
技术。学习和掌握这些思想技术的副产品就是持续⼀致地赚钱。你只
有明⽩了如何专注于掌握这些技术，你才能明⽩不要专注于赚钱。
what are the skills?
什么是技术？
consistency is the result of a carefree, objective state of mind, where we are
making ourselves available to perceive and act upon whatever the market is
offering us (from its perspective) in any given "now moment."
在 " 任何时刻 " ，都能根据市场的信息做决定，并⾏动，⽤开放，客观
的思想实现持续⼀致性。
what is a carefree state of mind?
什么是开放的思想？

carefree means confident, but not euphoric. when you are in a carefree state
of mind, you won't feel any fear, hesitation, or compulsion to do anything,
because you've effectively eliminated the potential to define and interpret
market information as threatening. to remove the sense of threat, you have
to accept the risk completely. when you have accepted the risk, you will be
at peace with any outcome. to be at peace with any outcome, you must
reconcile anything in your mental environment that conflicts with the five
fundamental truths about the market. what's more, you also have to
integrate these truths into your mental system as core beliefs.
开放意味着⾃信，但不过分兴奋。当你的思想是开放的，你不再害
怕、犹豫、或冲动，因为你不再把市场信息解读为有威胁的。要想去
除威胁的感觉，你必须完全接受⻛险。当你接受了⻛险，你对结果就
⽐较坦然。要想对结果坦然，你必须把思想环境中的任何东⻄和 5 个基
本事实协调⼀致。另外，你还要把这些事实放进你的思想系统，成为
你的核⼼信念。
what is objectivity?
什么是客观？
objectivity is a state of mind where you have conscious access to everything
you have learned about the nature of market movement. in other words,
nothing is being blocked or altered by your pain-avoidance mechanisms.
客观就是通过学习后，你对市场的本性有清醒认识的思想状态。换句
话说，痛苦回避系统不会阻⽌或改变任何东⻄。
what does it mean to make yourself available?
什么叫该做就做？
making yourself available means trading from the perspective that you have
nothing to prove. you aren't trying to win or to avoid losing. you aren't
trying get your money back or to take revenge on the market. in other
words, you come to the market with no agenda other than to let it unfold in

any way that it chooses and to be in the best state of mind to recognize and
take advantage of the opportunities it makes available to you.
该做就做就是该交易就交易，不要去证明什么。你不是为了赢或避免
亏损。你不是为了把钱赚回来或报复市场。换句话说，你进⼊市场时
没有计划，你让市场⾃⼰展现机会，然后你利⽤机会。
what is the "now moment"?
什么是 " 现在 " ？
trading in the "now moment" means that there is no potential to associate an
opportunity to get into, get out of, add too, or detract from a trade with a
past experience that already exists in your mental environment.
" 现在 " 就交易的意思是，不要把进场、出场、加仓、建仓等机会和思
想中过去的体验联系上。
how the fundamental truths relate to the skills
这些基本事实和技术如何联系起来
1. anything can happen. why? because there are always unknown forces
operating in every market at every moment, it takes only one trader
somewhere in the world to negate the positive outcome of your edge. that's
all: only one. regardless of how much time, effort, or money you've
invested in your analysis, from the market's perspective there are no
exceptions to this truth. any exceptions that may exist in your mind will be
a source of conflict and potentially cause you to perceive market
information as threatening.
任何事都会发⽣。为什么？因为在任何时刻，市场⾥都有未知的⼒
量，这个世界上只要有⼀个交易者⽅向操作，就有可能让你的优势消
失。没错：⼀个就⾏了。不管你花了多少时间、精⼒或⾦钱做分析，

从市场的⾓度来说，这个事实还是事实。你思想中的期望有可能和市
场信息起冲突，让你感受到威胁。
2. you don't need to know what is going to happen next in order to make
money. why? because there is a random distribution between wins and
losses for any given set of variables that define an edge. (see number 3.) in
other words, based on the past performance of your edge, you may know
that out of the next 20 trades, 12 will be winners and 8 will be losers. what
you don't know is the sequence of wins and losses or how much money the
market is going to make available on the winning trades. this truth makes
trading a probability or numbers game. when you really believe that trading
is simply a probability game, concepts like right and wrong or win and lose
no longer have the same significance. as a result, your expectations will be
in harmony with the possibilities.
为了赚钱，你不必知道市场下⼀步将如何。为什么？因为对于任何变
数，即使你认为是优势，赢亏间的分布是随机的（请看第 3 点）。换句
话说，根据过去的优势，对于后⾯的 20 笔交易， 12 笔赚， 8 笔亏。你不
知道赢和亏的出现顺序，你也不知道具体赚多少钱。这个事实说明交
易是概率或数字游戏。⼀旦你相信了交易就是概率游戏，那么对错，
赢亏等概念就不再重要。结果是，你的期望和概率相互照应。
keep in mind that nothing has more potential to cause emotional discord
than our unfulfilled expectations. emotional pain is the universal response
when the outside world expresses itself in a way that doesn't reflect what we
expect or believe to be true. as a result, any market information that does
not confirm our expectations is automatically defined and interpreted as
threatening. that interpretation causes us to adopt a negatively charged,
defensive state of mind, where we end up creating the very experience we
are trying to avoid.
请记住，没有实现的期望是最容易导致情绪不安的。外部世界的表达
⽅式如果和我们的期望或信仰冲突时，精神痛苦就成了普遍的反应。
结果是，如果市场信息和我们的期望不⼀致，我们就会⾃动把信息定

义解读成有威胁的。这种解读让我们的思想变成了消极的，防守的，
这正是我们极⼒避免的结果。
market information is only threatening if you are expecting the market to do
something for you. otherwise, if you don't expect the market to make you
right, you have no reason to be afraid of being wrong. if you don't expect
the market to make you a winner, you have no reason to be afraid of losing.
if you don't expect the market to keep going in your direction indefinitely,
there is no reason to leave money on the table. finally, if you don't expect to
be able to take advantage of every opportunity just because you perceived it
and it presented itself, you have no reason to be afraid of missing out.
如果你期望市场帮你做什么，市场信息就仅仅是有威胁的。否则，如
果你不期望市场证明你是对的，你没有理由害怕犯错。如果你不期望
市场让你成为赢家，你没有理由害怕亏损。如果你不是期望永远市场
向对你有利的⽅向⾛，没有理由⼀战就败。最终，如果你看⻅了机
会，却不期望抓住机会，你没有理由害怕错过机会。
on the other hand, if you believe that all you need to know is:
另⼀⽅⾯，如果你相信你所有要知道的是：
1. the odds are in your favor before you put on a trade;
2. how much it's going to cost to find out if the trade is going to work;
3. you don't need to know what's going to happen next to make money on
that trade; and
4. anything can happen;
·                              1.         在你交易前，概率对你有利；
·                              2.         亏损多少之后才能确认⼀笔交易是⽆效的；
·                              3.         你不必知道下⼀步会如何都能赚钱；

·                              4.         任何事都会发⽣；
then how can the market make you wrong? what information could the
market generate about itself that would cause your pain-avoidance
mechanisms to kick in so that you exclude that information from your
awareness? none that i can think of. if you believe that anything can happen
and that you don't need to know what is going to happen next to make
money, then you will always be right. your expectations will always be in
harmony with the conditions as they exist from the market's perspective,
effectively neutralizing your potential to experience emotional pain.
那么，市场是如何让你犯错的？是什么信息让你的痛苦回避系统起了
作⽤？如果你相信任何事都会发⽣，你不必知道下⼀步如何都能赚
钱，那么你就会永远正确。你的期望和市场状况⼀致，有效地中和了
精神痛苦的概率。
by the same token, how can a losing trade or even a series of losers have the
typical negative effect, if you really believe that trading is a probability or
numbers game? if your edge puts the odds in your favor, then every loss
puts you that much closer to a win. when you really believe this, your
response to a losing trade will no longer take on a negative emotional
quality.
同样的道理，如果你真的相信交易就是概率或数字游戏，那么⼀系列
亏损的是如何形成消极的影响的？如果你的优势概率很⼤，那么⼀连
串的亏损后，你赢的概率就⼤了。⼀旦你相信了，你对于亏损的交易
就不再会有消极的情绪。
3. there is a random distribution between wins and losses for any given set
of variables that define an edge. if every loss puts you that much closer to a
win, you will be looking forward to the next occurrence of your edge, ready
and waiting to jump in without the slightest reservation or hesitation. on the
other hand, if you still believe that trading is about analysis or about being
right, then after a loss you will anticipate the occurrence of your next edge
with trepidation, wondering if it's going to work. this, in turn, will cause

you to start gathering evidence for or against the trade. you will gather
evidence for the trade if your fear of missing out is greater than your fear of
losing. and you will gather information against the trade if your fear of
losing is greater than your fear of missing out. in either case, you will not be
in the most conducive state of mind to produce consistent results.
不管是什么变数定义的优势，赢亏间的分布是随机的。如果每⼀次亏
损让你离赢利更加接近，你就寻找下⼀个优势，准备好不保留，毫不
犹豫地跳进去。另⼀⽅⾯，如果你还相信交易就是靠分析或靠正确，
那么当你亏损后，你就会提⼼吊胆地去寻找下次机会，⼼⾥还在想会
不会成功。如果你害怕错过机会，不怎么害怕亏损，那么你就要⾃⼰
找信⼼。如果你害怕亏损，不怎么害怕错过机会，那么你就要收集反
⾯的信息。不管是哪种情况，你的思想状态都⽆法实现持续⼀致的收
益。
4. an edge is nothing more than an indication of a higher probability of one
thing happening over another. creating consistency requires that you
completely accept that trading isn't about hoping, wondering, or gathering
evidence one way or the other to determine if the next trade is going to
work. the only evidence you need to gather is whether the variables you use
to define an edge are present at any given moment. when you use "other"
information, outside the parameters of your edge to decide whether you will
take the trade, you are adding random variables to your trading regime.
adding random variables makes it extremely difficult, if not impossible, to
determine what works and what doesn't. if you're never certain about the
viability of your edge, you won't feel too confident about it. to whatever
degree you lack confidence, you will experience fear. the irony is, you will
be afraid of random, inconsistent results, without realizing that your
random, inconsistent approach is creating exactly what you are afraid of.
优势就是⼀件事发⽣的概率⽐另⼀件事发⽣的概率⼤。要想实现持续
⼀致性，就要完全接受这个观点，交易不是希望、憧憬、收集信息以
决定交易是否有效。你唯⼀要收集的证据就是⼀个定义优势的变数，
它在任何时刻都有⽤。当你使⽤ " 其它 " 信息时，你就给你的交易系统

添加了⼀个随机变数。变数多了，就很难决定哪个有效，哪个没效
果。如果你的优势让你感到不确定，你就没有太多⾃信。不管是什么
程度，只要没有⾃信，你就会体验到恐惧。讽刺的是，你会害怕随机
的，不持续的结果，却没有想到你就是害怕随机的，不持续的⽅法。
on the other hand, if you believe that an edge is simply a higher probability
of one thing happening over another, and there's a random distribution
between wins and losses for any given set of variables that define an edge,
why would you gather "other" evidence for or against a trade? to a trader
operating out of these two beliefs, gathering "other" evidence wouldn't
make any sense. or let me put it this way: gathering "other" evidence makes
about as much sense as trying to determine whether the next flip of a coin
will be heads, after the last ten flips came up tails. regardless of what
evidence you find to support heads coming up, there is still a 50-percent
chance that the next flip will come up tails. by the same token, regardless of
how much evidence you gather to support acting or not acting on a trade, it
still only takes one trader somewhere in the world to negate the validity of
any, if not all, of your evidence. the point is why bother! if the market is
offering you a legitimate edge, determine the risk and take the trade.
另⼀⽅⾯，如果你相信优势就是⽐较⾼的概率，对于任何优势，赢亏
都是随机分布的，那你为什么要收集 " 其它 " 证据来反对这笔交易呢？
对于有这两个信念的交易者来说，收集 " 其它 " 证据没有实际含义。或
者让我这么说：收集 " 其它 " 证据和 10 次掷硬币的结果是反⾯，现在决
定下⼀次是积极，还是反⾯，是⼀个道理。不管你的证据如何说明下
次是积极，还是有 50% 的机会为反⾯。同理，不管你交易的证据是多
么充分，这个世界上只要有⼀个交易者反着做，你的证据就失效了。
重点是，没有必要这么做！如果市场给你提供了优势，衡量⻛险，然
后交易。
5. every moment in the market is unique. take a moment and think about the
concept of uniqueness. "unique" means not like anything else that exists or
has ever existed. as much as we may understand the concept of uniqueness,
our minds don't deal with it very well on a practical level. as we have

already discussed, our minds are hardwired to automatically associate
(without conscious awareness) anything in the exterior environment that is
similar to anything that is already inside of us in the form of a memory,
belief, or attitude. this creates an inherent contradiction between the way we
naturally think about the world and the way the world exists. no two
moments in the external environment will ever exactly duplicate
themselves. to do so, every atom or every molecule would have to be in the
exact same position they were in some previous moment. not a very likely
possibility. yet, based on the way our minds are designed to process
information, we will experience the "now moment" in the environment as
being exactly the same as some previous moment as it exists inside our
minds.
任何时候市场都是独特的。花点时间想想独特的概念。 " 独特 " 意味着
和任何东⻄都不⼀样。不管我们如何理解独特的概念，我们的思想处
理不好它。我们已经讨论过了，我们的思想天⽣⾃动地把外部环境和
我们内部的记忆、信念或态度联系起来。这样就导致我们天⽣的想法
和现实有⽭盾。这个世界上没有两个相同的东⻄。要想实现这点，每
个原⼦和分⼦必须在和之前⼀样的空间存在。这不太可能实现。然
⽽，根据我们思想处理信息的⽅法，我们会同时体验环境中的 " 现
在 " 和思想中的过去。
if each moment is like no other, then there's nothing at the level of your
rational experience that can tell you for sure that you "know" what will
happen next. so i will say again, why bother trying to know?! when you try
to know, you are, in essence, trying to be right. i am not implying here that
you can't predict what the market will do next and be right, because you
most certainly can. it's in the trying that you run into all of the problems. if
you believe that you correctly predicted the market once, you will naturally
try to do it again. as a result, your mind will automatically start scanning the
market for the same pattern, circumstance, or situation that existed the last
time you correctly predicted its movement. when you find it, your state of
mind will make it seem as if everything is exactly as it was the last time. the
problem is that, from the market's perspective, it is not the same. as a result,
you are setting yourself up for disappointment.

如果每个时刻都不相同，那么就没有什么理性的经验让你 " 知道 " 下⼀
步会如何。所以我要说，尽量正确。我并不是说你不能预测市场的下
⼀步，因为很多时候你是能做到的。我是说要尽量解决这些问题。如
果你认为你曾经有⼀次正确地预测了市场，你⾃然还想去尝试。结果
是，你的思想会⾃动地扫描市场，寻找⼀样的模式、环境、或状况，
它们上次证明预测是正确的。当你找到了，你的思想会觉得⼀切都和
上次⼀样。问题是，从市场的⾓度来说，并不⼀样。结果是，你⾃⼰
让⾃⼰失望了。
what separates the best traders from all the rest is that they have trained
their minds to believe in the uniqueness of each moment (although this
training usually takes the form of losing several fortunes before they
"really" believe in the concept of uniqueness). this belief acts as a
counteracting force, neutralizing the automatic association mechanism.
when you truly believe that each moment is unique, then by definition there
isn't anything in your mind for the association mechanism to link that
moment to. this belief acts as an internal force causing you to disassociate
the "now" moment in the market from any previous moment filed away in
your mental environment. the stronger your belief in the uniqueness of each
moment, the lower your potential to associate. the lower your potential to
associate, the more open your mind will be to perceive what the market is
offering you from its perspective.
最优秀的交易者和其他⼈的区别是，最优秀的交易者训练⾃⼰的思想
相信市场在任何时刻都是独特的（虽然⼤多情况下是亏损了很多财富
之后才 " 真的 " 相信独特的概念）。对于⾃动联想系统来说，这个信念
就是反作⽤⼒，能中和⼀下。⼀旦你真的相信每个时刻都是独特的，
那么根据定义来说，没有什么东⻄可以联想了。这个信念就是内部的
⼒量，让你把市场的 " 现在 " 和思想环境的过去分开。你的信念越强，
你就越不会去联想。你越不联想，你的思想越开放，你就会看到市场
提供给你的东⻄。
moving toward "the zone"

进⼊这个  " 状态  "
when you completely accept the psychological realities of the market, you
will correspondingly accept the risks of trading. when you accept the risks
of trading, you eliminate the potential to define market information in
painful ways. when you stop defining and interpreting market information
in painful ways, there is nothing for your mind to avoid, nothing to protect
against. when there's nothing to protect against, you will have access to all
that you know about the nature of market movement. nothing will get
blocked, which means you will perceive all the possibilities you have
learned about (objectively), and since your mind is open to a true exchange
of energy, you will quite naturally start discovering other possibilities
(edges) that you formerly couldn't perceive.
当你接受了市场的⼼理现实，你就会相应地接受交易的⻛险。当你接
受了⻛险，你就不会痛苦地定义市场信息了。当你不再痛苦地定义或
解读市场信息，你的思想就不会回避什么了，也没有什么好怕的。但
没有什么好怕的时候，你就会努⼒接触市场的真实属性。没有任何阻
拦，意味着你会看⻅所有的概率（客观），因为你的思想是开放的，
可以接受真实的能量交换，你就会⾃然地发现以前没有发现的概率
（优势）。
for your mind to be open to a true exchange of energy, you can't be in a
state of knowing or believing that you already know what's going to happen
next. when you are at peace with not knowing what's going to happen next,
you can interact with the market from a perspective where you will be
making yourself available to let the market tell you, from its perspective,
what is likely to happen next. at that point, you will be in the best state of
mind to spontaneously enter "the zone," where you are tapped into the "now
moment opportunity flow."
为了实现开放的思想，你不能说⾃⼰知道或相信下⼀步会如何。当你
不再知道下⼀步会如何，你就会和市场沟通，让市场告诉你下⼀步会