如何。此时，你的思想状态就是进⼊ " 状态 " 了，你可以利⽤ " 现在的机
会流 " 。
Chapter 9 the nature of beliefs

第  09 章  信念的天性
at this point, if you can sense the benefits of adopting the five fundamental
truths about trading, then the task is to learn how to properly integrate these
truths into your mental system as core beliefs that are not in conflict with
any other beliefs you may hold.
此时，如果你能体会到采⽤ 5 个交易基本事实的好处，那么现在的任务
是如何把这些事实融于你的思想系统，作为核⼼的信念，这些信念不
会引起任何冲突。
at first glance, this may seem like a daunting task and under other
circumstances i would agree with you, but it won't be, because in chapter 11
i'll give you a simple trading exercise specifically designed to properly
install these truths as beliefs at a functional level. a functional level is, one
where you find yourself just naturally operating out of a carefree state of
mind, perceiving exactly what you need to do and doing it without
hesitation or internal conflict.
第⼀眼看去，这个任务有点可怕，如果是其它情况，我会同意你的。
但是我不会，因为在第 11 章我会⽤特意设计的练习给你安装这些事实
的信念，具有可操作性。具有可操作性指你在交易时很⾃然地放开思
想，该做就做，没有犹豫，也没有内⼼冲突。
however, i do have a word of caution for those of you who have already
looked at the exercise. on the surface, the trading exercise looks so simple
that you may be tempted to do it now, before you thoroughly understand the
implications of what you are doing. i strongly suggest that you reconsider.
there are some subtle yet profound dynamics involved in the process of

learning how to install new beliefs and change any existing beliefs that are
in conflict with the new ones. understanding the trading exercise itself is
easy. understanding how to use the exercise to change your beliefs is
another matter entirely. if you do the exercise without understanding the
concepts presented in this chapter and the next, you will not achieve the
desired results.
然⽽，我要警告已经看过这个练习的⼈。表⾯上看，这个交易练习很
简单，你恨不得现在就去做，但是你没有完全理解它的含义。我强烈
建议你慎重考虑。学习新的信念，并替换旧的，有冲突的信念，这个
过程中会有细微的，但深奥的动⼒。了解这个交易练习是很简单的。
但是了解如何把这个练习⽤来改变你的信念则是另外⼀回事了。如果
你没有理解本章和下⼀章的概念，就去做这个练习，你就没有达到既
定的⽬的。
it is also important that you not take for granted the amount of mental effort
you may have to expend to train your mind to fully accept these principles
of success, regardless of how well you understand them. remember bob, the
cta who believed he thoroughly understood the concept of probabilities, but
didn't have the ability to function from a probabilistic perspective.
不管你的理解多深，完全接受这些成功的原则也是不容易的，不要想
当然，这点也很重要。记住鲍伯，这个注册交易顾问以为他完全懂了
概率的概念，但是他⽆法从概率的⾓度来操作。
many people make the mistake of assuming that once they understand
something, the insight inherent in their new understanding automatically
becomes a functional part of their identity. most of the time, understanding
a concept is only a first step in the process of integrating that concept at a
functional level. this is especially true of concepts that deal with thinking in
probabilities. our minds are not naturally wired to be "objective" or to stay
in the "now moment." this means we have to actively train our minds to
think from these perspectives.

很多⼈都犯了⼀个错误，他们以为只要⾃⼰了解了什么，他们天⽣的
认知就能⾃动地去确认。⼤部分时间，了解⼀个概念只是把这个概念
融于操作性的第⼀步。在概率思想⽅⾯，这个概念是真实的。我们的
思想并不是天⽣就是 " 客观的 " ，或专注于 " 现在 " 。这意味着我们要积
极地训练我们的思想从这些⾓度思考。
in addition to the training involved, there may be any number of conflicting
beliefs to work through. conflicting beliefs will have the effect of
sabotaging your best intentions to operate from an objective state of mind
or to experience the "now moment opportunity flow." for example, let's say
you've spent years learning how to read the markets, or spent large sums of
money developing or buying technical systems, just so you could find out
what was going to happen next. now you have come to understand that you
don't have to know what's going to happen next, and that even trying to
know will detract from your ability to be objective or to stay in the moment.
what we have is a direct conflict between your old belief that you need to
know what will happen next to be successful and your new understanding
that you don't need to know.
除了要训练，还要处理⼀些有冲突的信念。冲突的信念会摧毁你客观
的⾏动意图，或让你错失 " 现在的机会流 " 。⽐如，假如说我们花了⼏
年时间学习如何解读市场，或者是花了很多钱形成或购买交易系统，
这样你就能知道下⼀步会如何。现在你明⽩了，你不必知道下⼀步会
如何，⽽且这种努⼒会让你失去客观或不在状态。直接的冲突就是⽼
信念想知道下⼀步会如何，⽽新的信念则不需要知道下⼀步会如何。
now, will your new understanding suddenly neutralize all the time, money,
and energy expended on reinforcing the belief that you "need to know"? i
wish it were that easy. and for some lucky few, it may be. if you will recall
in chapter 4 when i talked about psychological distance in relationship to
software code, i said that some traders may already be so close to these new
perspectives that all they need is to put together a few of the missing pieces
to create a mind-altering, "ah, ha" experience.

你花了很多时间、⾦钱和精⼒，以加强 " 必须知道 " 这个信念，现在是
不是突然把这个信念中和了？我希望有这么简单。对于少数幸运的
⼈，也许如此。如果你还记得第 04 章，当我谈到软件代码错误代表的
⼼理距离时，有些交易者离这个认知已经很近了，再就⼏步，就会惊
呼 " 啊哈，我明⽩了 " 。
however, based on my experience of working with well over a thousand
traders, i can say that most are not close to these perspectives at all. for
those of you who are not, it may take a considerable amount of mental work
(over a considerable amount of time) to properly integrate your new
understandings about trading into your mental environment. the good news
is that, ultimately, the exercise i present in chapter 11 will install the five
fundamental truths and resolve many of the potential conflicts, but only if
you know exactly what you are doing and why you are doing it. that is the
subject of this and the next chapter.
然⽽，根据我和上千个交易者沟通的经验，我可以说⼤部分⼈还没有
接近那个认知呢。对于还没有做到的⼈，也许需要很多思想⼯作（花
很多时间）才能把新只是融于你的思想环境。好消息是，在第 11 章，
我的练习会把 5 个基本的事实给你安装上，并解决你的潜在冲突，但是
你要知道你在做什么，以及为什么你要这么做。这就是本章和下⼀章
的主题。
the origins of a belief
信念的来源
what can we learn about the nature of beliefs, and how can we use that
knowledge to create a mind-set that fosters our desire to be a consistently
successful trader? these are the two questions i am going to focus on
answering in this chapter.
信念的天性是什么，如何才能把它转化成持续⼀致成功交易者的思
维？这是本章关注的两个问题。

first, let's look at the origin of our beliefs. as you may recall, memories,
distinctions, and beliefs exist in the form of energy - specifically, structured
energy. earlier, i lumped these three mental components together to
illustrate:
⾸先，让我们看看信念的来源。你可以⽤能量的⽅式，尤其是有组织
的能量来回忆、记忆、辨别和相信。之前，我把三个思想组成到⼀
起，以说明：
1. that memories, distinctions, and beliefs do not exist as physical matter;
2. that the cause-and-effect relationship that exists between ourselves and
the external environment brings these components into existence; and
3. how the cause-and-effect relationship reverses so that we can perceive in
the external environment what we have learned about.
·                              1.         记忆、辨别和信念不是以物理状态存在；
·                              2.         外部环境和我们之间的因果关系导致了记
忆、辨别和信念的存在；
·                              3.         因果关系如何逆转，这样我们就能认知外部
环境。
to get at the origins of our beliefs, we're going to have to unbundle these
components to illustrate the difference between a memory and a belief. the
best way to do this is to imagine ourselves in the mind of an infant. i would
think that at the very beginning of a child's life, the memories of his
experiences would exist in their purest form. by that i mean that the
memories of what he has seen, heard, smelled, touched, or tasted exist in his
mind as pure sensory information that is not organized or attached to any
specific words or concepts. therefore, i am going to define a pure memory
as sensory information stored in its original form.

要想知道信念的来源，我们要解释记忆和信念的区别。最好的⽅法就
是想象我们的思想和婴⼉⼀样。我想⼀个⼈⼩的时候，他体验的记忆
是以最纯的⽅式存在的。他看到的、听到的、闻到的、摸到的、尝到
的，在他的思想中以纯粹的感官信息存在，没有经过任何具体的词汇
或概念的组织。因此，我将定义⼀个纯粹的感官信息的记忆，以它原
始的⽅式做定义。
a belief, on the other hand, is a concept about the nature of the way the
external environment expresses itself. a concept combines pure sensory
information with a symbol system we call language. for example, most
infants have a pure memory of how it feels to be lovingly nurtured by a
parent, but it isn't until the infant is taught to link or associate certain words
with the pure sensory information stored in his memory that he will form a
concept about how it feels to be lovingly nurtured.
另⼀⽅⾯，信念是外部环境表达⾃⼰的⾃然概念。概念是纯粹的感官
信息和语⾔的合体。⽐如，⼤部分婴⼉对⽗⺟的爱⼼养育都有⼀个纯
粹的记忆，但是在婴⼉时期，他不知道把词汇和纯粹的感官信息联系
起来，所以他对爱⼼养育是没有概念的。
the phrase "life is wonderful" is a concept. by themselves, the words make
up a meaningless collection of abstract symbols. but if a child is either
taught or decides to connect these words to his positively charged feelings
of being nurtured, then the letters are no longer a collection of abstract
symbols and the words are no longer an abstract phrase. "life is wonderful"
becomes a definitive distinction about the nature of existence or the way the
world works. by the same token, if the child didn't get enough nurturing,
relative to his needs, he could just as easily link his feelings of emotional
pain to a concept like "life isn't fair" or "the world is an awful place."
" ⽣活是美好的 " ，这句话是概念。词汇把抽象的符号连接在⼀起。但
是，如果⼩孩没有接受教育，或者是⽆法把这些词汇联系起来，那么
这些单词就没有把抽象的符号联系起来，单词也没有抽象的表达。 " ⽣
活是美好的 " 是⾃然存在的特征，或是世界规律的特征。同理，如果⼩

孩没有得到⾜够的养育，他就可以轻松地把他的精神痛苦以 " ⽣活是不
公平的 " 或 " 这个世界是个可怕的地⽅ " 的概念来表达。
in any case, when the positive or negative energy from our memories or
experiences become linked to a set of words we call a concept, the concept
becomes energized and, as a result, is transformed into a belief about the
nature of reality. if you consider that concepts are structured by the
framework of a language and energized by our experiences, it becomes
clear why i refer to beliefs as "structured energy."
不管是哪种情况，我们记忆或体验中的积极或消极能量和单词联系起
来就是概念，概念被组织后，形成信念，信念是现实的属性。如果你
考虑到概念被语⾔组织，被体验激发，就很清楚为什么我说信念是 " 被
组织的能量 " 。
when a belief comes into existence, what does it do? what is its function? in
some ways it seems ludicrous to ask those questions. after all, we all have
beliefs. we are constantly expressing our beliefs both verbally and through
our actions. furthermore, we are constantly interacting with other peoples
beliefs as they express them. yet, if i ask, "what exactly does a belief do?"
chances are your mind will go blank.
当信念存在时，它会⼲什么？它的功能是什么？有时候觉得问这样的
问题很荒唐。然⽽，我们都有信念。我们总是通过语⾔和⾏动来表达
⾃⼰的信念。另外，我们总是在和别⼈的信念交涉。如果我问： " 信念
到底在做什么？ " 你的思想就空⽩了。
on the other hand, if i were to ask about the functions of your eyes, ears,
nose, or teeth, you would have no problem answering. since beliefs are such
important component parts of our make-up (in terms of their impact on the
quality of our lives), it certainly has to be one of life's great ironies that they
are also the least thought about and understood.
另⼀⽅⾯，如果我问眼、⽿、⿐、⽛⻮的功能，你肯定能回答。考虑
到信念是我们的重要组成部分（它影响我们⽣活质量的冲击），我们

却没想到它，这是⼀个很⼤的讽刺。
what i mean by "least thought about" is, if we have a problem with one of
our body parts, we naturally focus our attention on that part and think about
what we need to do to fix the problem. however, it doesn't necessarily occur
to us that the problems we may be having with the quality of our lives (for
example, lack of happiness, a sense of dissatisfaction, or lack of success in
some area) are rooted in our beliefs.
" 没想到它 " 的意思是，如果我们的某个⾝体部分有问题，我们⾃然会
关注，并思考如何解决这个问题。然⽽，我们没想到是我们的信念出
了问题，影响了我们的⽣活质量（⽐如，不幸福，不满，某⽅⾯的不
成功）。
this lack of consideration is a universal phenomenon. one of the prominent
characteristics of beliefs is that they make what we experience seem self
evident and beyond question. in fact, if it weren't for your intense desire to
experience consistent success as a trader, it's unlikely you would be delving
into this topic at all. usually, it takes years of extreme frustration before
people begin examining their beliefs as the source of their difficulties.
没有想到这点是很平常的。信念的⼀个显著特点是，它让我们的体验
看起来是不⾔⽽喻的。实际上，如果你不是渴望成为⼀个持续⼀致的
交易者，你都不会讨论这个话题。通常，只有体验了极度的挫折，⼈
们才会停下来检查⾃⼰的信念。
however, even though beliefs are an intricate part of our identity, you don't
have to take this process of self analysis so personally. consider the fact that
none of us was born with any of our beliefs. they were all acquired in a
combination of ways. many of the beliefs that have the most profound
impact on our lives were not even acquired by us as an act of free will. they
were instilled by other people. and it probably won't come as a surprise to
anyone that usually the beliefs that cause us the most difficulty are those
that were acquired from others without our conscious consent. by that i

mean beliefs that we acquired when we were too young and uninformed to
realize the negative implications of what we were being taught.
然⽽，即使信念是我们整体的错综复杂的⼀部分，你并不需要⾃⼰去
分析。考虑到我们在出⽣时都没有任何信念。他们都是通过多种⽅法
得到的。很多对我们⽣活有重⼤影响的信念并不是我们⾃⼰得到的。
是其他⼈灌输给我们的。⽽且，让我们感到难受的信念都是⽆意中从
别⼈那⾥得到的。我们在年轻时，不懂事时得到的很多信念是消极
的。
regardless of the source of our beliefs, once they are born into existence
they all basically function in the same way. beliefs have certain
characteristic ways in which they do their jobs, not unlike the various parts
of our bodies. for example, if you compare my eyes and your eyes, or my
hands and your hands, or my red blood cells and your red blood cells, we
can see that they are not exactly the same, but they have characteristics in
common that cause them to function in similar ways. by the same token, a
belief that "life is wonderful" will perform its function in the same way as a
belief that "life is awful." the beliefs themselves are different and the effect
that each has on the quality of the holder's life will be vastly different, but
both beliefs will function in exactly the same manner.
不说信念的来源，只要它们存在，它们的功能就是⼀样的。和我们的
⾝体不同部分不⼀样，信念有特定的做事⽅法。⽐如，如果你⽐较我
的眼睛和你的眼睛，或者⽐较我的⼿和你的⼿，或者⽐较我的⾎液红
细胞和你的⾎液红细胞，它们都不⼀样，但是它们的功能都⼀样。同
理， " ⽣活是美好的 " 和 " ⽣活是糟糕的 " ，这两个信念的功能是⼀样
的。信念不同，它们对有不同信念的⼈的影响也不同，但信念的⼯作
原理⼀样。
beliefs and their impact on our lives
信念和信念对我们⽣活的影响

in the broadest sense, our beliefs shape the way we experience our lives. as
i have already said, we're not born with any of our beliefs. they're acquired,
and as they accumulate, we live our lives in a way that reflects what we
have learned to believe. consider how different your life would be if you
had been born into a culture, religion, or political system that has very little,
if anything, in common with the one you were born into. it might be hard to
imagine, but what you would have learned to believe about the nature of
life and how the world works may not be remotely similar to what you
currently believe. yet you would hold these other beliefs with the same
degree of certainty as your current beliefs.
总体⽽⾔，信念决定了我们对⽣活的体验。我说过，我们出⽣时没有
任何信念。我们是在我们相信的⽣活中慢慢得到这些信念的。如果你
出⽣时的⽂化、宗教或政治完全不同，可以想象你的⽣活也是有很⼤
的不同。这有点难想象，但是你对⽣活的认识，对世界的认识应该差
不多。你会把类似的信念当作你的信念。
how beliefs shape our lives
信念是如何形成我们的⽣活的
1. they manage our perception and interpretation of environmental
information in a way that is consistent with what we believe.
2. they create our expectations. keep in mind that an expectation is a belief
projected into some future moment. since we can't expect something we
don't know about, we could also say that an expectation is what we know
projected into some future moment.
3. anything we decide to do or any outward expression of behavior will be
consistent with what we believe.
4. finally, our beliefs shape how we feel about the results of our actions.
·                              1.         它们管理我们对环境信息的认知和解读，让
我们⼀直相信。

·                              2.         它们制造期望。记住，期望是信念投射到未
来的东⻄。因为我们不能期望我们不知道的东⻄，我们也可以说期望
就是我们知道的东⻄投射到未来。
·                              3.         我们决定做的任何事或⾏为的外部表达都会
和我们相信的保持⼀致。
·                              4.         最后，我们的信念形成我们对⾏动结果的感
觉。
there isn't much about the way we function that beliefs don't play a major
role in. so what i am going to do now is give you an example i used in my
first book, the disciplined trader, to illustrate the various functions of a
belief.
我们做的事，⼤多都是因为信念起⼤作⽤。所以我讲给你⼀个案例，
是我在第⼀本书《有纪律的交易者》提到的，以说明信念的不同功
能。
in the spring of 1987, i was watching a locally produced television program
called "gotcha chicago." it was about some local celebrities who played
practical jokes on one another. in one segment of the program, the tv station
hired a man to stand on the sidewalk along michigan avenue holding a sign
that read "free money. today only." (for those of you who are not familiar
with chicago, michigan avenue is home to many fashionable, exclusive
department stores and boutiques.) the tv station gave the man a considerable
amount of cash, with instructions to give money to anyone who asked for it.
1987 年春天，我正在看当地的电视节⽬《哈哈芝加哥》。内容是⼀些
当地的社会名流互相开玩笑。在其中⼀集，电视台请了⼀个⼈站在密
歇根⼤道旁边，⼿上拿着⼀个牌⼦，上⾯写着： " 免费送钱，仅限今天
（如果你不了解芝加哥，我解释⼀下，密歇根⼤道有很多⼤型百货公
司和时装店） " 。电视台给了这个⼈很多现⾦，告诉他，只要有⼈要，
就给他钱。

now, when you consider that michigan avenue is one of the busiest areas of
the city, and if we assume that most of the people who passed the man on
the street could read the sign, how many people would you think took him
up on his offer and asked for some money? of all the people who walked by
and read the sign, only one person stopped, and said, "great! may i have a
quarter to buy a bus transfer?" otherwise, no one would even go near the
man.
现在想象⼀下，密歇根⼤道是其中⼀个最繁忙的⼤道，很多⼈经过这
个拿着牌⼦的⼈，会有多少⼈找他要钱呢？所有经过的⼈中间，只有
⼀个⼈停下来问： " 不错！我可以拿 25 分钱坐公交⻋吗？ " 剩下来的⼈
都没有⾛近这个⼈。
eventually, the man grew frustrated because people weren't reacting the way
he expected them to. he started crying out, "do you want any money? please
take my money; i can't give it away fast enough." everyone just kept
walking around him as if he didn't exist. in fact, i noticed that several
people went out of their way to avoid him. as a man wearing a suit and
carrying a briefcase approached, he went right up to him and said, "would
you like some money?" the man responded, "not today." really frustrated
now, he shot back, "how many days does this happen? would you please
take this?" as he tried to hand the man some cash. the man responded with a
terse "no" and walked on.
因为没有⼈找他要钱，这个最终深受挫折。他开始⼤喊： " 你们要钱
吗？请来这⾥拿，我发不完啊。 " 每个⼈都是从他旁边匆匆⽽过，似乎
他并不存在。实际上，我注意到有⼏个⼈还刻意回避他，从旁边⾛过
去。当有⼀个穿着⻄装，拿着⼿提箱的⼈⾛近时，他⾛上去问： " 你想
要钱吗？ " 这个⼈回答说： " 今天不需要 " 。他真的深感挫折，⼤声喊
道： " 你要等多久？请收下这钱吧？ " 他努⼒给这个⼈钱，这个⼈简单
地回答： " 不 " ，就⾛了。
what was going on here? why wouldn't anyone (except for the person who
needed a bus transfer) ask for the money? if we assume that most or all of
the passersby could read the sign, but still didn't make any effort to get the

money, then one possible explanation for their behavior is that they just
didn't care about money. this is extremely unlikely, though, considering how
much of our lives is devoted to the pursuit of money.
发⽣了什么事？为什么没有⼈要钱（除了坐公交⻋的）？如果说⼤部
分⼈都看⻅了这个牌⼦，却不愿意尝试去拿钱，那么只有⼀个解释，
他们不关⼼钱。这太不合理了，我们在⽣活中都是努⼒追求钱的。
if we agree that people could read the sign and that money is very important
to most of us, then what could have stopped these people from helping
themselves? the environment was making available an experience that most
people would love to have: someone giving them money with no strings
attached. yet everyone walked by, oblivious to what was awaiting them.
they must not have been able to perceive what was available. that's hard to
imagine, because the sign clearly stated "free money. today only." however,
it's not hard to imagine if you consider that most people have a belief (an
energized concept about how the world works) that "free money doesn't
exist."
如果我们都同意，⼈们看⻅了那么牌⼦，也同意钱对⼤多数⼈都很重
要，那么这些⼈为何不愿意接受帮助呢？⼤部分⼈都希望：别⼈⽆条
件给他钱。然⽽每个经过的⼈都看⻅了这个牌⼦，盼望的事等到了。
他们⼼⾥明⽩什么意思。牌⼦上写着 " 免费给钱，仅限今天 " ，真不敢
相信。然⽽，不难想象，⼤部分⼈⼼⾥还有⼀个信念： " 天下没有免费
的午餐 " （⼀个对世界运作的能量概念）。
if free money really doesn't exist, then how does someone reconcile the
obvious contradiction between that belief and the sign saying that it does?
that's easy, just decide the man with the sign is crazy; what else could
account for such bizarre behavior if, in fact, free money doesn't exist? the
reasoning process that could compensate for the contradiction might go
something like this: "everyone knows getting money with no strings
attached rarely happens. certainly not from a stranger on one of the busiest
streets in the city. in fact, if the man were really giving away money, he
would already be mobbed. he might even be endangering his life. he must

be crazy. i had better take a wide path around him; who knows what he
might do?"
如果天下没有免费的午餐，那么⼈们如何解决这个信念和牌⼦的⽭
盾？这很简单，就认为拿牌⼦的⼈是疯⼦。如果天下没有免费的午
餐，那么这个古怪的⼈不是疯⼦是什么？这个解释的过程可以补偿我
们的⽭盾⼼理。就像： " 每个⼈都知道⽆偿地得到⼀笔钱的概率很低。
当然在最繁忙的⼤道更不可能。实际上，如果这个⼈真的送钱，他早
就被围个⽔泄不通了。也许他的⽣活出了问题。他肯定疯了。我最好
远离他，谁知道他会⼲什么？ "
notice that every component of the thought process described is consistent
with the belief that free money doesn't exist.
请注意，每个思想过程都说明了这个信念：天下没有免费的午餐。
1. the words "free money" were neither perceived nor interpreted as they
were intended from the environment s perspective.
2. deciding the person with the sign must be crazy created an expectation of
danger, or at least a perception that caution was warranted.
3. purposefully altering one's path to avoid the person with the sign is an
action that is consistent with the expectation of danger.
4. how did each person feel about the outcome? that's difficult to say
without knowing each person individually, but a good generalization would
be that they felt relieved that they successfully avoided an encounter with a
crazy person.
从市场的⾓度来看， " 免费午餐 " 这个词组不是认知的，也不是解读
的。
认为这个⼈是疯⼦，产⽣了危险的预期，⾄少意识到要保持警惕。

每个⼈对结果的感觉如何？因为不知道每个⼈的个性，所以很难说。
但是总体⽽⾔，他们会为成功地回避了这个疯⼦⽽感到轻松。
the feeling of relief that resulted from avoiding a confrontation is a state of
mind. remember that how we feel (the relative degree of positively or
negatively charged energy flowing through our bodies and minds) is always
the absolute truth. but the beliefs that prompt any particular state of mind
may not be the truth with respect to the possibilities available from the
environment's perspective.
避免疑惑以后的轻松也是⼀种思想状态。记住，我们的感受都是绝对
真实的（只是流过我们⾝体和思想的能量分为积极的和消极的）。但
是从环境的⾓度来看，我们的信念导致的思想不⼀定就是真实的。
relief from confrontation was not the only possible outcome in this
situation. imagine how different the experience would be if they believed
that "free money exists." the process described above would be the same,
except it would make the belief that "free money exists," seem self-evident
and beyond question, just as it made the belief that "free money doesn't
exist," seem self-evident and beyond question.
记住，接触疑惑后的信念并⾮是这个环境的唯⼀结果。想象⼀下，如
果他们相信 " 天下有免费的午餐 " ，体验会有多⼤的不同。过程和上⾯
⼀样，他们就像毫⽆疑问地相信 " 天下没有免费的午餐 " ⼀样毫⽆疑问
地相信 " 天下有免费的午餐 " 。
a perfect example would be the one person who said "great, may i have a
quarter for a bus transfer." when i saw this, i had the anybody for a quarter.
a panhandler is someone who definitely believes in the existence of free
money. therefore, his perception and interpretation of the sign were exactly
what was intended by the tv station. his expectation and behavior were
consistent with his belief that free money exists. and how would he feel
about the results? he got his quarter, so i would assume he felt a sense of
satisfaction. of course, what he didn't know is that he could have gotten a
lot more.

最完美的案例就是上⾯那个说： " 不错，我要 25 分钱坐公交⻋ " 的⼈。
当我看到这⾥时，我想任何⼈都可以要 25 分钱。乞丐就是绝对相信天
下有免费的午餐的⼈。因此，对这个牌⼦的认知和解读都是电视台搞
出来的。他的期望和⾏为都和他的信念⼀致，就是天下有免费午餐。
他对结果的感受如何？他拿到了 25 分钱，所以我想他感觉是满意的。
当然了，他不知道他可以得到更多的钱。
there's another possible outcome for our scenario. let's look at a
hypothetical example of someone who believes that "free money doesn't
exist," but who takes a "what if approach to the situation". in other words,
some people can be so intrigued and curious about the possibilities that they
decide to temporarily suspend their belief that "free money doesn't exist."
this temporary suspension allows them to act outside the boundaries created
by a belief, in order to see what happens. so instead of ignoring the man
with the sign, which would be our hypothetical person's first inclination, he
walks up to him and says, "give me ten dollars." the man promptly pulls a
ten-dollar bill out of his pocket and gives it to him. what happens now? how
does he feel, having experienced something unexpected that completely
contradicted his belief?
这种情况还有另外⼀个结果。让我们看看假想的例⼦，⼀个⼈相信 " 天
下没有免费的午餐 " ，但是他想 " 如果遇到这种情况，会如何呢。 " 换句
话说，有些⼈只是暂时地相信 " 天下没有免费的午餐 " ，⼼中还是对免
费午餐有点兴趣的。这种暂时的怀疑会让他们打破信念的障碍，并看
看会有什么事发⽣。所以他们不会对拿牌⼦的⼈感到讨厌，他⾛上去
说： " 给我 10 元。 " 对⽅⽴刻抽出 10 元钱给他了。现在会如何？他感觉
如何，为何现实和他的信念完全⽭盾呢？
for most people, the belief that free money doesn't exist is acquired through
unpleasant circumstances, to put it mildly. the most common way is being
told that we can't have something because it's too expensive. how many
times does the typical child hear, "who do you think you are anyway?
money doesn't grow on trees, you know." in other words, it is probably a
negatively charged belief. so the experience of having money handed to him

with no strings attached and without any negative comments would likely
create a state of mind of pure elation.
对于⼤部分⼈，天下没有免费的午餐这个信念是通过不愉快的⽅式得
到的。通常的说法是我们不能拥有⼀些昂贵的东⻄。⼩孩⼀般会听到
多少次 " 你以为你是谁？钱不会从树上掉下来。 " 换句话说，这是消极
的信念。所以，⽆偿得到钱，还没有⼈责骂，会让他产⽣得意洋洋的
思想状态。
in fact, most people would be so happy that they'd feel compelled to share
that happiness and this new discovery with everyone they knew. i can
imagine him going back to his office or going home, and the moment he
encounters someone he knows, the first words out of his mouth will be "you
won't believe what happened to me today," and even though he desperately
wants those he meets to believe his story, they probably won't. why?
because their belief that free money doesn't exist will cause them to
interpret his story in a way that negates its validity.
世界上，⼤部分⼈喜欢和别⼈分享⾃⼰的快乐和新发现。我可以想象
他回到办公室或回家后，遇到了熟⼈，脱⼝⽽出的是： " 你不相信今天
发⽣了什么事 " ，事实上他希望对⽅相信他的故事，他们⼀般都不相
信，为什么。因为如果相信了这个故事，那就说明天下没有免费的午
餐这个信念是错的。
to take this example a little further, imagine what would happen to this
person's state of mind if it occurred to him that he could have asked for
more money. he is in a state of pure elation. however, the moment the
thought either pops into his mind or someone he relates his story to offers
the idea that he could have asked for a lot more money, his state of mind
will immediately shift to a negatively charged state of regret or despair.
why? he tapped into a negatively charged belief about what it means to miss
out on something or not get enough. as a result, instead of being happy over
what he got, he will lament what he could have had but didn't get.

更深⼊地研究，如果他知道⾃⼰可以要更多的钱，他⼼⾥会怎么想。
他是单纯的得意洋洋。然⽽，如果他突然想到可以做要点钱，或者是
⼀个熟⼈告诉他是可以多要点钱的，他的思想⽴刻会变成消极的后悔
和绝望。为什么？他碰到了消极的信念，那就是错过了机会，没有多
要点钱。结果是，他不但为此快乐，他还会为没有多要点⽽悲伤。
beliefs vs. the truth
信念对抗事实
in all three of these examples (including the hypothetical one), everybody
experienced their own unique version of the situation. if asked, each person
would describe what he or she experienced from their perspective, as if it
were the only true and valid version of the reality of the situation. the
contradiction between these three versions of the truth suggests to me a
larger philosophical issue that needs to be resolved. if beliefs limit our
awareness of the information being generated by the physical environment,
so that what we perceive is consistent with whatever we believe, then how
do we know what the truth is?
在这三个例⼦中（包括假想的那个），每个⼈的体验都是⾃⼰的独特
版本。如果问他们，每个⼈都会说⾃⼰的期望是什么，似乎那就是真
实情况唯⼀的有效版本。这三个真实的版本的⽭盾建议我要解决⼀个
很⼤的哲学问题。如果信念限制了我们了解物理环境的信息，造成我
们认知的就是我们相信的，那么我们如何知道事实是什么？
to answer this question, we have to consider four ideas:
回答这个问题之前，我们必须考虑 4 个思想：
1. the environment can express itself in an infinite combination of ways.
when you combine all the forces of nature interacting with everything
created by humans, then add to that the forces generated by all the possible
ways people can express themselves, the result is a number of possible

versions of reality that would surely overwhelm even the most open-minded
person.
2. until we have acquired the ability to perceive every possible way in
which the environment can express itself, our beliefs will always represent
a limited version of what is possible from the environment's perspective,
making our beliefs a statement about reality, but not necessarily a definitive
statement of reality.
3. if you find yourself taking exception to the second statement, then
consider that if our beliefs were a true, 100-percent accurate reflection of
physical reality, then our expectations would always be fulfilled. if our
expectations were always fulfilled, we would be in a perpetual state of
satisfaction. how could we feel other than happy, joyful, elated, and with a
complete sense of well-being if physical reality was consistently showing
up exactly as we expected it to?
4. if you can accept the third statement as being valid, then the corollary is
also true. if we are not experiencing satisfaction, then we must be operating
out of a belief or beliefs that don't work very well relative to the
environmental conditions.
·                              1.         环境表达⾃⼰的⽅式有很多种组合。如果你
综合考虑⼈类和⾃然⼒量的情况，再加上所有⼈类表达⾃⼰的⼒量，
结果就有有很多事实的版本，思想最开放的⼈也会由此⽽头昏。
·                              2.         除⾮我们有能⼒认知环境，否则我们的信念
对环境的反应总是有局限的，我们的信念能反应现实，但不能定义现
实。
·                              3.         如果你发现第 2 点有例外情况，那么请考虑是
否我们的信念 100% 地反应了物理现实，如果这样，那么我们的期望都
能被实现。如果我们的期望总是被实现，我们应该很满意。如果事实
和我们期望的总是⼀样，为何我们感受不到幸福、快乐、兴⾼采烈？

·                              4.         如果你接受第 3 点，那么推论也是真实的。如
果我们不满意，那么我们就没有信念，或者是信念和环境状态不协
调。
taking these four ideas into consideration, i can now answer the question,
"what is the truth?" the answer is, whatever works. if beliefs impose
limitations on what we perceive as possible, and the environment can
express itself in an infinite combination of ways, then beliefs can only be
true relative to what we are attempting to accomplish at any given moment.
in other words, the relative degree of truth inherent in our beliefs can be
measured by how useful they are.
想想这 4 个思想，我能回答这个问题： " 什么是真实？ " 答案是，任何有
效的东⻄。如果信念对可能的事加了限制，⽽环境表达⾃⼰的⽅式⼜
是⽆限的，那么信念只是反应现实。换句话说，信念可以⽤多⼤的作
⽤性来衡量。
each of us has internally generated forces (curiosity, needs, wants, desires,
goals, and aspirations) that compel or motivate us to interact with the
physical environment. the particular set of steps we take to fulfill the object
of our curiosity, needs, wants, desires, goals, or aspirations is a function of
what we believe to be true in any given circumstance or situation. that truth,
whatever it is, will determine:
每个⼈都有天⽣的⼒量（好奇、需要、想要、渴望、⽬标、期望）推
动或刺激我们和物理环境交涉。要想实现这些好奇、需要、想要、渴
望、⽬标、期望，关键是要我们相信它的真实性。不管事实是什么，
它会决定：
1. the possibilities we perceive in relation to what is available from the
environment's perspective,
2. how we interpret what we perceive,
3. the decisions we make,

4. our expectations of the outcome,
5. the action we take, and
6. how we feel about the results of our efforts.
·                              1.         我们认知的概率，
·                              2.         我们如何解读认知，
·                              3.         我们做的决定，
·                              4.         我们对结果的期望，
·                              5.         我们的⾏动，
·                              6.         我们对努⼒后结果的感受如何
at any given moment, if we find ourselves in a state of satisfaction,
happiness, or well-being in relation to whatever we are attempting to
accomplish, we can say that our truth (meaning whatever beliefs we are
operating from) are useful because the process, as stated above, worked.
what we perceived was not only consistent with our objective, it was also
consistent with what was available from the environment's perspective. our
interpretation of the information we perceived resulted in a decision,
expectation, and action that were in harmony with the environmental
situation and circumstance. there was no resistance or counteracting force
offered by the environment (or in our own mind) that would diminish the
outcome we were trying to achieve. as a result, we find ourselves in a state
of satisfaction, happiness, and well-being.
在任何时刻，如果我们是满意的、幸福的、或者是感觉很好的，那么
我们可以说事实（不管是使⽤了什么信念）是有⽤的，因为这个过程
是有⽤的。我们的认知不但和⽬标⼀致，也和环境⼀致。我们对信息
的解读形成决定、期望和⾏动，它们和环境是⼀致的。环境（或我们

的思想）没有反抗或反击，这样就不会摧毁我们努⼒想要的结果。结
果是，我们就很满意、幸福、感觉很好。
on the other hand, if we find ourselves in a state of dissatisfaction,
disappointment, frustration, confusion, despair, regret, or hopelessness, we
can say that relative to the environmental situation and circumstances, the
beliefs we are operating from don't work well or at all, and therefore are not
useful. simply put, the truth is a function of whatever works in relation to
what we are trying to accomplish at any given moment.
另⼀⽅⾯，如果我们不满意、失望、挫折、迷惑、绝望、后悔或没有
希望，我们可以说，我们的信念不起作⽤，因此没⽤。简单地说，事
实就是我们实现任何事的功能。