Chapter 10 the impact of beliefs on
trading

第  10 章  信念对交易的影响
if the external environment can express itself in an infinite combination of
ways, then there's really no limit to the number and types of beliefs
available to be acquired about the nature of our existence. that is an
elaborate way of saying that there's a lot out there to be learned about. yet,
to make a general observation about the nature of humanity, i would say
that we certainly don't live our lives in a manner that is consistent with that
statement. if it's true that it's possible to believe almost anything, then why
are we always arguing and fighting with each other? why isn't it all right for
all of us to express our lives in a way that reflects what we have learned to
believe?
如果外部环境有很多种⽅法表达⾃⼰，那么就有⽆数个信念来说明我
们的本性。其实就是说我们要学的东⻄太多了。然⽽，看看我们的⼈
性，我可以说我们的⽣活并⾮如此。如果相信任何事都是真实的，那
么为什么会有那么多争吵和⽃争呢？我们为什么不可以真实地表达⾃
⼰的想法呢？
there has to be something behind our relentless attempt to convince others
of the validity of our beliefs and to deny the validity of theirs. consider that
every conflict, from the smallest to the largest, from the least to the most
significant, whether between individuals, cultures, societies, or nations, is
always the result of conflicting beliefs. what characteristics of our beliefs
make us intolerant of divergent beliefs? in some cases, we are so intolerant
that we are willing to kill each other to get our point across.
我们叫别⼈相信信念，并拒绝别⼈的信念，这背后有⽆情的企图。想
想冲突，不管是⼩的还是⼤的，不管是不重要的还是最重要的，不管

是不是个⼈间的、⽂化间的、社会间的或国家间的，总是由冲突的信
念造成的。是什么导致了我们的信念⽆法接受有分歧的信念？有时
候，为了证明我们是对的，我们愿意杀了对⽅。
my personal theory is that beliefs are not only structured energy, but also
energy that seems to be conscious, at least to the extent of having some
degree of awareness. otherwise, how can we account for our ability to
recognize on the outside what is on the inside? how would we know our
expectations are being fulfilled? how would we know when they are not?
how would we know we are being confronted with information or
circumstances that contradict what we believe? the only explanation i have
is that each individual belief has to have some quality of either awareness or
self-awareness that causes it to function as it does.
我个⼈是这么认为的，信念不但是有组织的能量，⽽且是有意识的，
⾄少是有⼀定程度的意识。否则，我们如何有能⼒根据外⾯⽽知道内
部情况？我们如何知道期望会被实现？我们如何知道期望不会被实
现？我们如何知道信息或环境和我们相信的东⻄是⽭盾的？我唯⼀的
解释是，每个⼈的信念都有⼀定程度的意识或⾃我意识。
the idea of energy that has some degree of awareness may be difficult for
many of you to accept. but there are several observations we can make
about our individual and collective natures that support die possibility. first,
everyone wants to be believed. it doesn't matter what the belief is; the
experience of being believed feels good. i think these positive feelings are
universal, meaning that they apply to everyone. conversely, no one likes to
be disbelieved; it doesn't feel good. if i said, "i don't believe you," the
negative feeling that would resonate throughout your body and mind is also
universal. by the same token, none of us likes to have our beliefs
challenged. the challenge feels like an attack. everyone, regardless of the
belief, seems to respond in the same way: the typical response is to argue,
defend ourselves (our beliefs), and, depending on the situation, attack back.
很多⼈⽆法接受这个，思想的能量有⼀定程度的意识。但是有⼀些个
⼈和集体的⾏为可以⽀持这个观点。⾸先，每个⼈都愿意被别⼈相

信。不敢是什么信念，被别⼈相信的感觉很好。我想这种积极的感觉
是普遍的，也就是说对任何⼈都是如此。相反，没有⼈愿意别⼈不相
信他，那种感觉不好。如果我说： " 我不相信你 " ，你⾝体和思想的消
极感觉对别⼈也是⼀样的。同理，我们不喜欢别⼈挑战我们的信念。
这种挑战就像是攻击。每个⼈，不管信念是什么，反应都是⼀样的：
典型的反应是吵架，为⾃⼰辩护（我们的信念），根据情况不同，还
会还击。
when expressing ourselves, we seem to like being listened to. if we sense
our audience isn't paying attention, how does it feel? not good! again, i
think this response is universal. conversely, why is it so difficult to be a
good listener? because to be a good listener, we actually have to listen,
without thinking about how we are going to express ourselves the moment
we can either politely or rudely interrupt the person who's speaking. what's
the compelling force behind our inability to listen without waiting to
interrupt?
当我们表达⾃⼰时，我们喜欢别⼈倾听。如果我们发现听众没有在⽤
⼼听，我们感觉如何？感觉不好！我再次相信这个反应是普遍的。相
反，为什么成为⼀个好的听众那么难？因为要成为好的听众，我们就
必须听，不能打断别⼈。为什么我们在倾听的时候喜欢打断别⼈呢？
don't we like being with people with similar beliefs, because it feels
comfortable and secure? don't we avoid people with dissimilar or
conflicting beliefs, because it feels uncomfortable or even threatening? the
bottom line implication is, the moment we acquire a belief, it seems to take
on a life of its own, causing us to recognize and be attracted to its likeness
and repelled by anything that is opposite or contradictory. considering the
vast number of divergent beliefs that exist, if these feelings of attraction or
comfort and being repelled or threatened are universal, then each belief
must somehow be conscious of its existence, and this conscious, structured
energy must behave in characteristic ways that are common to all of us.

我们喜欢和有相同信念的⼈在⼀起，因为这样舒服安全，是不是？我
们不喜欢和不同信念的⼈在⼀起，因为感觉不舒服，甚⾄有威胁，是
不是？也就是说，⼀旦我们有了⼀个信念，我们就希望终⽣拥有，吸
引相同信念，排挤不同信念。考虑到有⼤量的不同信念存在，如果这
种吸引相同的，排挤不同的也是普遍的现象，那么信念⼀定是有意识
的，这种意识以能量的形式组织起来，⽤我们熟知的⽅式运作。
the primary characteristics of a belief
信念的基本特点
there are three basic characteristics you need to understand in order to
effectively install the five fundamental truths about trading at a functional
level in your mental environment:
为了给你的思想环境安装 5 个基本的交易事实，你要了解 3 个基本的特
点：
1. beliefs seem to take on a life of their own and, therefore, resist any force
that would alter their present form.
2. all active beliefs demand expression.
3. beliefs keep on working regardless of whether or not we are consciously
aware of their existence in our mental environment.
·                              1.         信念似乎有⽣命，因此，它会拒绝对它不利
的⼒量。
·                              2.         所有活跃的信念都需要表达出来。
·                              3.         ⽆论我们是否意识到我们思想环境⾥的信
念，信念会⼀直在⼯作。

1. beliefs resist any force that would alter their present form. we may not
understand the underlying dynamics of how beliefs maintain their structural
integrity, but we can observe that they do so, even in the face of extreme
pressure or force. throughout human history, there are many examples of
people whose belief in some issue or cause was so powerful that they chose
to endure indignities, torture, and death rather than express themselves in a
way that violated their beliefs. this is certainly a demonstration of just how
powerful beliefs can be and the degree to which they can resist any attempt
to be altered or violated in the slightest way.
信念会决绝对它不利的⼒量。我们也许不知道信念维护⾃⼰整体性的
⼒量，但是我们看⻅。在⼈类历史上，有很多例⼦，⼈们的信念太强
烈，他可以忍受屈辱、折磨和死亡，也不愿意违反⾃⼰的信念。这就
是⼀个案例，说明信念多么有⼒量，它们可以拒绝对它们不利的任何
企图。
beliefs seem to be composed of a type of energy or force that naturally
resists any other force that would cause them to exist in any form other than
their present form. does this mean that they can't be altered? absolutely not!
it just means that we have to understand how to work with them. beliefs can
be altered, but not in the way that most people may think. i believe that
once a belief has been formed, it cannot be destroyed. in other words, there
is nothing we can do that would cause one or more of our beliefs to cease to
exist or to evaporate as if they never existed at all. this assertion is founded
in a basic law of physics. according to albert einstein and others in the
scientific community, energy can neither be created nor destroyed; it can
only be transformed. if beliefs are energy - structured, conscious energy that
is aware of its existence - then this same principle of physics can be applied
to beliefs, meaning, if we try to eradicate them, it's not going to work.
信念似乎是由⼀种⼒量组成，这种⼒量会反抗任何对它们不利的⼒
量。是不是说信念就⽆法改变了？绝对不是！这只是说我们要知道如
何利⽤它们。我相信⼀旦信念被建⽴了，就⽆法毁灭它。换句话说，
我们⽆法让我们的信念消失。这个断⾔是根据物理定律来的。阿尔伯
特 · 爱因斯坦和其他科学家说，能量既不能被创造，也不能被毁灭，它

只能被改变。如果信念是能量 -- 有组织的，有意识的，知道⾃⼰存在
的能量 -- 那么这个同样的物理定律也可以⽤到信念上，也就是说，我
们⽆法彻底根除它。
if you knew someone or something was trying to destroy you, how would
you respond? you would defend yourself, fight back, and possibly become
even stronger than you were before you knew of the threat. each individual
belief is a component of what we consider to be our identity. isn't it
reasonable to expect that, if threatened, each individual belief would
respond in a way that was consistent with how all the parts respond
collectively?
如果你知道什么⼈或什么事要毁了你，你会如何反应？你会⾃卫，还
击，有可能为此变得更加强壮。每个信念都是我们的⼀部分。如果受
到了威胁，我们的信念会不会像所有⾝体结构⼀样去反应？
the same principle holds true if we try to act as if a particularly troublesome
belief doesn't exist. if you woke up one morning and everyone you knew
ignored you and acted as if you didn't exist, how would you respond? it
probably wouldn't be long before you grabbed someone and got right in
their face to try to force them to acknowledge you. again, if purposely
ignored, each individual belief will act in the very same way. it will find a
way to force its presence into our conscious thought process or behavior.
如果我们假装⼀个讨厌的信念不存在，我们的反应也是⼀样。如果你
早上醒来，发现所有⼈都当你不存在⼀样，你有什么反应？你可能很
快抓住⼀个⼈，贴着他的脸让他认识你。同样，如果他们有意要忽视
你，他们的信念也是⼀样。它会找到⼀个⽅法进⼊我们的思维过程或
⾏为。
the easiest and most effective way to work with our beliefs is to gently
render them inactive or nonfunctional by drawing the energy out of them. i
call this process de-activation. after de-activation, the original structure of
the belief remains intact, so technically it hasn't changed. the difference is
that the belief no longer has any energy. without energy, it doesn't have the

potential to act as a force on our perception of information or on our
behavior.
最简单，最有效的和我们的信念⼀起⼯作的⽅法是让它们不再活跃，
或去除它们的能量，让它们不起作⽤。我称作去除活跃性。去除活跃
性以后，信念的原始结构没变，所以技术上说，它没有改变。区别
是，信念不再是能量了。没有能量，它就不会影响我们的认知和⾏
为。
here is a personal illustration: as a young child, i was taught to believe in
both santa claus and the tooth fairy. in my mental system, both of these are
perfect examples of what are now inactive, nonfunctional beliefs. however,
even though they are inactive, they still exist inside my mental system, only
now they exist as concepts with no energy. if you recall from the last
chapter, i defined beliefs as a combination of sensory experience and words
that form an energized concept. the energy can be drawn out of the concept,
but the concept itself remains intact, in its original form. however, without
energy, it no longer has the potential to act on my perception of information
or on my behavior.
这是⼀个个⼈说明：⼩时候，我既要相信圣诞⽼⼈，⼜要相信⽛仙。
在我的思想系统中，这两个都是不活跃的，不起作⽤的信念。然⽽，
即使它们是不活跃的，它们还存在于我的思想系统中，只是现在没有
能量。如果你再回忆上⼀章，我对信念是这样定义的，信念是有感受
的体验和词汇以能量的形式组合的概念。能量可以从概念中拿出来，
但是概念本⾝没有变化，还是原来的形式。然⽽，没有了能量，它就
再也不会影响我的认识和我的⾏为。
so, as i'm sitting here typing into my computer, if someone came up to me
and said that santa claus was at the door, how do you think i would define
and interpret this information? i would treat it as being irrelevant or a joke,
of course. however, if i were five years old and my mother told me that
santa claus was at the front door, her words would have instantly tapped me
into a huge reservoir of positively charged energy that would have

compelled me to jump up and run to the front door as fast as i could.
nothing would have been able to stop me. i would have overcome any
obstacle in my path.
现在，我对着电脑打字，如果有⼈来告诉我，说圣诞⽼⼈在门⼝，你
认为我会如何定义和解读这个信息？我会觉得没有意思，或者是开玩
笑。然⽽，如果我只有 5 岁，我妈告诉我圣诞⽼⼈在门⼝，她的话会激
活我巨⼤的积极能量，我会尽快冲去开门。没有什么能拦住我。我可
以消除⼀切阻挡我的东⻄。
at some point, my parents told me santa claus didn't exist. of course, my
first reaction was disbelief. i didn't believe them, nor did i want to believe
them. eventually, they convinced me. however, the process of convincing
me did not destroy my belief in santa claus or cause it not to exist any
longer; it just took all the energy out of the belief. the belief was
transformed into a nonfunctional, inactive concept about how the world
works. i'm not sure where all that energy went, but i know that some of it
was transferred to a belief that santa claus doesn't exist. now i have two
contradictory distinctions about the nature of the world that exist in my
mental system: one, santa exists; two, santa doesn't exist. the difference
between them is in the amount of energy they contain. the first has virtually
no energy; the second has energy. so from a functional perspective, there is
no contradiction or conflict.
有时候，⽗⺟告诉我圣诞⽼⼈并不存在。当然了，第⼀次我不相信。
我不相信他们，也不愿意相信他们。最终，我相信了。然⽽，虽然我
相信他们了，但是我对圣诞⽼⼈的信念还在，只是把信念中的能量拿
⾛了。这个信念变成了⼀个没有功能，不活跃的概念，这个概念说明
世界是如何运作的。我不知道能量去了哪⾥，但我知道部分能量转到
了圣诞⽼⼈不存在的信念。此时，我的思想系统⾥⾯有了两个⽭盾的
对这个世界辨别：其⼀，圣诞⽼⼈存在；其⼆，圣诞⽼⼈不存在。它
们的区别在于能量的不同。第⼀个机会没有能量，第⼆个有能量。所
以，从功能的⾓度来看，就没有⽭盾，没有冲突。

i propose that, if it's possible to render one belief inactive, then it's possible
to de-activate any belief, despite the fact that all beliefs seem to resist any
force that would alter their present form. the secret to effectively changing
our beliefs is in understanding and, consequently, believing that we really
aren't changing our beliefs; we are simply transferring energy from one
concept to another concept, one that we find more useful in helping us to
fulfill our desires or achieve our goals.
我想，虽然所有的信念都会反抗对它不利的⼒量，如果可以让⼀个信
念变得不活跃，那么就有可能让任何信念不活跃。有效改变信念的秘
诀是要相信我们并不是真的改变了我们的信念，我们只是转移了能
量，从⼀个概念转移到另⼀个概念。这样可以帮助我们实现愿望或⽬
标。
2. all active beliefs demand expression. beliefs fall into two basic
categories: active and inactive. the distinction between the two is simple.
active beliefs are energized; they have enough energy to act as a force on
our perception of information and on our behavior. an inactive belief is just
the opposite. it is a belief, that for any number of reasons, no longer has
energy, or has so little energy that it's no longer able to act as a force on
how we perceive information or how we express ourselves.
所有活跃的信念需要表达。信念分为两组：活跃的和不活跃的。两者
的区别很简单。活跃的信念有能量，它可以影响我们的认知和⾏为。
不活跃的信念正好相反。它是信念，但由于多种原因，不再有能量，
或者是只有⼀点点能量，它不会影响我们的认知，也不会影响我们如
何表达⾃⼰。
when i say that all active beliefs demand expression, i don't mean to imply
that every belief in our mental environment is demanding to express itself
simultaneously. for example, if i ask you to think about what's wrong with
the world today, the word "wrong" would bring to your mind ideas about
the nature of the world that reflect what you believe to be troubling or
disturbing. unless, of course, there is nothing about the state of the world
you find troubling. the point is, if there is something you do believe is

wrong, you weren't necessarily thinking about those ideas before i asked the
question; but the moment i did, your beliefs about these issues instantly
moved to the forefront of your conscious thinking process. in effect, they
demanded to be heard.
当我说所有的活跃的信念都需要表达时，我不是说我们思想环境⾥的
信念都要同时表达⾃⼰。⽐如，如果我问你，今天世界有什么不
对， " 不对 " 这个词就会进⼊你的思想，以想想这个世界有什么⿇烦或
不对的地⽅。除⾮你找不到任何问题。重点是，如果你知道有什么是
错的，在我问你之前，你还没有想到过。但是当我问时，你的信念⽴
刻想到了。因此，信念要求被听⻅。
i say that beliefs "demand" to be expressed because once something causes
us to tap into our beliefs, it seems as if we can't stop the flood of energy
that's released. this is especially true of emotionally sensitive issues or
beliefs we feel particularly passionate about. you might ask, "why would i
want to hold back expressing my beliefs?" there could be several reasons.
consider a scenario in which you're this person is saying something that you
completely disagree with, or even find utterly absurd. will you express your
truth or hold back? that will depend on the beliefs you have about what is
proper in such a situation. if your beliefs dictate that speaking up would be
inappropriate, and those beliefs have more energy than the ones that are
being contradicted, then you'll probably hold back and not argue openly.
我说信念 " 要求 " 表达⾃⼰，因为⼀旦有什么东⻄触动了我们的信念，
我们是没有办法阻⽌能量的释放的。对于敏感的问题或我们容易激动
信念，这种情况更明显。你可能问： " 为什么我要压抑⾃⼰的信
念？ " 可能有⼏个原因。想象有⼈说了⼀些你根本不同意的话，甚⾄是
荒谬的话。你是要真实地表达⾃⼰，还是控制着不说？这取决与你的
信念是否认为合适。如果你的信念认为说出来不合适，信念的能量⽐
较⼤，你就会控制着⾃⼰不去争吵。
you might be looking at this person (the boss) and nodding your head in
agreement. but is your mind in agreement? more to the point, is your mind

silent? absolutely not! your position on the issues being presented are
effectively countering each point the boss is making. in other words, your
beliefs are still demanding expression, but they aren't being expressed
externally (in the environment) because other beliefs are acting as a
counteracting force. however they will soon find a way to get out, won't
they? as soon as you are out of the situation, you will probably find a way
to "unload," or even spew out your side of the argument. you will probably
describe what you had to endure to anyone you think will lend a
sympathetic ear. this is an example of how our beliefs demand to be
expressed when they are in conflict with the external environment.
你也许会看着这个⼈（⽼板），点头同意。但是你的思想同意吗？更
重要的是，你的思想平静吗？绝对不！你的观点完全和⽼板相反。换
句话说，你的信念要需要表达，但（在这种情况下）它们不能被表
达，因为其它的信念在起反⾯作⽤。然⽽，它们很快就能找到出路，
是不是？⼀旦离开了这个环境，你可能会知道⽅法 " 释放 " ，或者直接
把反⾯观点说出来。你甚⾄会向别⼈诉苦，让别⼈同情你。这就是信
念需要表达，却被外部冲突环境压抑的例⼦。
but what happens when one or more of our beliefs are in conflict with our
intents, goals, dreams, wants, or desires? the implications of such a conflict
can have a profound effect on our trading. as we have already learned,
beliefs create distinctions in how the external environment can express
itself. distinctions, by definition, are boundaries. human consciousness, on
the other hand, seems to be larger than the sum total of everything we have
learned to believe. this "larger than" quality of human consciousness gives
us the ability to think in any direction we choose, either inside or outside of
the boundaries imposed by our beliefs. thinking outside of the boundaries of
our beliefs is commonly referred to as creative thinking. when we purposely
choose to question a belief (question what we know), and sincerely desire
an answer, we make our minds available to receive a "brilliant idea,"
"inspiration," or "solution" to the issue at hand.
但是，如果多个信念和我们的⽬标、梦想、需求或欲望冲突怎么办？
这种冲突对我们的交易有很严重的影响。我们已经知道了，信念限制

外部环境表达⾃⼰的⽅式。限制就是范围。看起来，⼈类的意识是最
⼤的东⻄。这种最⼤的东⻄让我们在任意⽅向思考，不管是信念规定
的内部，还是外部。思考信念规定的外部的东⻄就是创造性思考。当
我们怀疑⼀个信念（怀疑已知的），并渴望答案时，我们的思想就会
准备接收到 " 美好的想法 "" 启发 " 或 " 解决⽅案 " 。
creativity, by definition, brings forth something that didn't we will (by
definition, automatically) receive ideas or thoughts that are outside of
anything that already exists in our rational mind as a belief or memory. as
far as i know, there is no consensus among artists, inventors, or the religious
or scientific communities as to exactly where creatively generated
information comes from. however, what i do know is that creativity seems
to be limitless and without boundaries.
根据定义，创造性就是带来⼀些我们没有（张轶注：此处英⽂缺
失） …… 我们会（根据定义，⾃动地）接受我们的信念或记忆中不同
的思想或想法。据我所知，艺术家、发明者、宗教⼈⼠或科学界都⽆
法⼀致地解释创造性的信息来⾃哪⾥。然⽽，我知道创造性看起来是
没有限制，没有范围的。
if there are any limits on the ways we can think, we certainly haven't found
them yet. consider the staggering pace at which technology has developed
in the last 50 years alone. every invention or development in the evolution
of humanity was born in the minds of people who were willing to think
outside the boundaries dictated by what they had learned to believe.
如果我们的思考⽅式有任何限制，我们肯定没有找到它们。想想过去
50 年来科技发展的步履蹒跚。任何发明或发展都是⼈类思想打破限制
的结果。
if all of us have the inherent ability to think creatively (and i believe that we
do), then we also have the potential to encounter what i call a "creative
experience." i define a creative experience as the experience of anything
new or outside the boundaries imposed by our beliefs. it could be a new

sight - something we've never seen before, but from the environment's
perspective was always there. or we could experience a new sound, smell,
taste, or touch. creative experiences, like creative thoughts, inspirations,
hunches, and brilliant ideas, can occur as a surprise or can be the result of
our conscious direction. in either case, when we experience them we can be
confronted with a major psychological dilemma. a creative occurrence,
whether in the form of a thought or an experience, can cause us to be
attracted to or desire something that is in direct conflict with one or more of
our beliefs.
如果我们天⽣都能创造性地思考（我相信我们有这个能⼒），那么我
们也会遇到所谓的 " 创造性的体验 " 。我把任何新的体验或冲破我们信
念的体验定义为创造性的体验。它可以是⼀个新的地点 -- 我们没⻅过
的，但是从环境的⾓度来说，它⼀直在那⾥。或者是我们体验的新的
声⾳、闻到、味觉或触觉。创造性体验，就像创造性的思想、期望、
直觉和伟⼤的思想，可以是突然出现的，或者是意识指导的结果。不
管是哪种情况，当我们⾯对时，我们就遇到了⼀个⼼理两难。当创造
性发⽣时，不管是思想的还是体验的，会导致我们渴望和我们信念冲
突的东⻄。
to illustrate the point, let's return to the example of the boy and dog. recall
that the boy has had several painful experiences with dogs. the first
experience was real from the environment's perspective. the others,
however, were the result of how his mind processed information (based on
the operation of the association and pain-avoidance mechanisms). the end
result is that he experiences fear every time he encounters a dog. let's
suppose that the boy was a toddler when he had his first negatively charged
experience. as he grows up and begins associating specific words and
concepts with his memories, he will form a belief about the nature of dogs.
it would be reasonable to assume that he adopted a belief something like,
"all dogs are dangerous."
为了说明这点，让我们回到⼩孩和狗的例⼦。⼩孩和狗有⼏次可怕的
遭遇。第⼀体验，从市场的⾓度来看是真实的。然⽽，其它的体验取

决与他的思想如何处理信息（根据联想能⼒和痛苦回避系统的不
同）。结果是，他每次遇到狗都害怕。让我们假设他第⼀次的消极体
验发⽣在他蹒跚学步时。当他⻓⼤时，他开始把特定的单词和概念联
系记忆起来，他会对狗的本性形成⼀个信念。不难想象，他对狗的信
念是： " 所有狗都是危险的 " 。
with the use of the word "all," the boy's belief is structured in a way that
assures that he will avoid all dogs. he has no reason to question this belief,
because every experience has confirmed and reinforced its validity.
however, he (and everyone else on the planet) is susceptible to a creative
experience. under normal circumstances, the boy will do everything
possible to make sure he does not encounter a dog. but what if something
unexpected and unintended occurs?
⽤了单词 " 所有的 " ，这个⼩孩的信念就决定了他要回避所有的狗。他
没有理由怀疑⾃⼰的信念，因为他每次的体验都确认并加强了它的有
效性。然⽽，他（和地球上的任何⼈）有可能受创造性体验的影响。
通常情况下，这个⼩孩会尽⼒回避狗。但是，如果意料之外的事发⽣
了，会如何？
suppose the boy is walking with his parents and, as a result, feels safe and
protected. now, suppose he and his parents come to a blind corner and
cannot see what is on the other side. they encounter a scene in which
several children of about the same age as the boy are playing with some
dogs and, furthermore, they are obviously having a great deal of fun. this is
a creative experience. the boy is confronted with indisputable information
that what he believes about the nature of dogs isn't true. what happens now?
假如说这个⼩孩和⽗⺟⾛在⼀起，这样就感到安全，有⼈保护。假如
他们此时⾛到⼀个拐⾓，看不⻅另⼀边是什么。然后他们看到有⼀群
和这个⼩孩⼀样⼤的孩⼦在和⼀些狗⼀起玩耍，⽽且玩得很开⼼。这
就是创造性的体验。这个⼩孩遇到了⽆法争辩的信息，那就是他对狗
的信念不是真的。那会如何？

first, the experience was not at the boy's conscious direction. he didn't make
a decision to willingly expose himself to information that contradicted what
he believed to be true. we might call this an inadvertent creative experience,
because the external environment forced him to confront other possibilities
that he didn't believe existed. second, the experience of seeing other
children playing with dogs and not getting hurt will throw his mind into a
state of confusion. after the confusion wears off, meaning as he begins to
accept the possibility that not all dogs are dangerous, several scenarios are
possible.
⾸先，这个体验不是这个⼩孩的意识决定的。他并没有想到要去接触
和他的信念⽭盾的信息。我们可以说这不是故意的创造性体验，因为
是外部环境逼他⾯对他不相信的概率。第⼆，看⻅其他⼩孩和狗⼀起
玩，且没受伤，这个体验让他进⼊迷惑的状态。当他不再迷惑时，他
就开始接受这个概率，那就是不是所有狗都是危险的。
seeing other children his own age (with whom he could strongly identify)
having such a great time playing with dogs could cause the boy to decide
that he wants to be like the other children and have fun with dogs, too. if
that's the case, this inadvertent creative encounter has caused him to
become attracted to express himself in a way that he formerly didn't believe
was possible (interacting with dogs). in fact, the notion was so impossible
that it wouldn't have even occurred to him to consider it. now, he not only
considers it, he desires it.
看⻅和⾃⼰⼀样⼤的⼩孩（他会严重关注是谁）和狗玩的那么开⼼，
他⾃⼰也想和狗玩。如果是这样，那么这次⾮故意的创造性相遇导致
他想⽤以前不相信的⽅式（和狗玩）来表达⾃⼰。实际上，这个想法
太不可能了，他以前是不会这么想的。现在，他不但想，还⾮常想。
will he be able to express himself in a way that is consistent with his desire?
the answer to this question is a matter of energy dynamics. there are two
forces within the boy that are in direct conflict with each other, competing
for expression: his belief that "all dogs are dangerous" and his desire to
have fun and be like the other children. what he will do the next time he

encounters a dog will be determined by which has more energy: his belief
or his desire.
他会实现⾃⼰的欲望并表达⾃⼰吗？答案和能量有关。⼩孩的内部有
两种互相冲突的⼒量，都挣着要表达⾃⼰： " 所有狗都是危险的 " 的信
念和像其他⼩孩⼀样和狗玩耍的欲望。当他下次遇到狗时会怎么办，
这取决于哪个能量更⼤：他的信念和他的欲望。
given the intensity of the energy in his belief that "all dogs are dangerous,"
we can reasonably assume that his belief will have far more energy than his
desire. if that's the case, then he will find his next encounter with a dog very
frustrating. even though he may want to touch or pet the dog, he'll find that
he can't interact with it in any way. the word "all" in his belief will act as a
paralyzing force, preventing him from fulfilling his desire. he might be well
aware of the fact that the dog he wants to pet is not dangerous and won't
hurt him; but he won't be able to pet it until the balance of energy tips in
favor of his desire.
根据 " 所有狗都是危险的 " 信念中能量的密度不同，我们可以说他信念
的能量⽐欲望多。如果是这样，他会发现下次遇到狗时很受挫折。即
使他想摸摸狗或拍拍狗，但是他还是⽆法和狗沟通。他信念中的 " 所
有 " ⿇痹了他，不准他实现⾃⼰的欲望。也许他知道这只狗没有危险，
不会伤害他，但是如果能量没有转移到欲望的话，他还是不敢拍狗。
if the boy genuinely wants to interact with dogs, he will have to overcome
his fear. this means that he will have to de-activate his belief that all dogs
are dangerous so he can properly install a belief about dogs that is more
consistent with his desire. we know that dogs can express themselves in a
wide range of ways, from loving and gentle to mean and nasty. however,
very few dogs on a percentage basis fall into the mean and nasty category. a
good belief for the boy to adopt, then, would be something like, "most dogs
are friendly, but some can be mean and nasty." this belief would allow him
to learn to recognize characteristics and behavior patterns that will tell him
which dogs he can play with and which ones to avoid.

如果这个⼩孩⾮常想和狗沟通，他必须克服⾃⼰的恐惧。他必须解
除 " 所有狗都是危险的 " 这个信念的活跃性，然后安装⼀个新的信念，
这个信念和他的欲望⼀致。我们知道狗表达⾃⼰的⽅式有很多种，有
可爱的、可亲的、凶狠的和恶毒的。然⽽，很少有狗是凶狠的和恶毒
的。这个⼩孩要采⽤的信念应该是： " ⼤部分狗都是友好的，但是有写
是凶狠的，恶毒的。 " 这个信念让他去区分不同的特点和⾏为模式，这
样就知道和哪只狗玩耍，并回避哪只狗。
however, the larger issue is, how can the boy de-activate the "all" in the
belief that "all dogs are dangerous" so he can overcome his fear? remember
that all beliefs naturally resist any force that would alter their present form,
but, as i indicated above, the appropriate approach is not to try to alter the
belief, but rather to draw the energy out of it and channel that energy into
another belief that is better suited to our purposes. to de-activate the concept
the word "all" represents, the boy will have to create a positively charged
experience with a dog; at some point, he will have to step through his fear
and touch one.
然⽽，有⼀个⼤问题，如何去除 " 所有狗都是危险的 " 信念⾥⾯的 " 所
有 " ？这样才能克服恐惧。记住，所有信念天⽣就会对抗对它们不利的
⼒量。但是，正如我上⾯所说，合适的⽅法不是改变信念，⽽是把能
量转移到其它对实现⽬标有好处的信念中。为了去除 " 所有 " 代表的概
念的活跃性，⼩孩必须创造⼀个积极的和狗的体验，有时候，他必须
忍受恐惧，去摸⼀只狗。
doing this might require a great deal of effort on the boy's part over a
considerable amount of time. early in the process, his new realization about
dogs might be strong enough only to allow him to be in the presence of a
dog, at a distance, and not run away. however, each encounter with a dog,
even at a distance, that doesn't result in a negative outcome will draw more
and more of the negative energy out of his belief that "all dogs are
dangerous." eventually, each new positive experience will allow him to
close the gap between himself and a dog, little by little, to the point that he
can actually touch one. from an energy dynamics perspective, he will be

able to touch a dog when his desire to do so is at least one degree greater in
intensity than his belief that all dogs are dangerous. the moment he actually
does touch a dog, it will have the effect of drawing most of the remaining
negative energy out of the "all" concept and transfer it to a belief that
reflects his new experience.
这个⼩孩要做到这点，需要很多努⼒和时间。⼀开始，他对狗的认识
只能让他⾯对狗，不跑开。然⽽，每次遇到狗，即使是在远处，结果
也是积极的，会慢慢地把 " 所有狗都是危险的 " 这个信念的消极能量转
移⾛。最终，每⼀次的体验都会让他和狗的距离拉近，⼀点⼀点地，
最终他就可以摸狗了。从能量的⾓度来看，只要他的这个欲望⽐所有
狗都是危险的信念的能量要多的话，他就会摸狗了。当他摸到狗时，
就把 " 所有 " 概念⾥⾯的剩余的消极能量全部转移到他的新体验信念⾥
⾯了。
although it's probably not that common, there are people who, for various
reasons, are motivated enough to purposely put themselves through the
above described process. however, they may not be consciously aware of
the dynamics involved. people who work through a childhood fear of this
magnitude usually do so somewhat haphazardly over a period of years,
without knowing for sure exactly how they did it (unless they seek and get
competent professional help). later on, as adults, if they are asked or if they
happen to encounter a situation that reminds them of their past (for instance,
observing a child who is terrified of dogs), they typically characterize the
process they went through as "i remember when i was afraid of dogs, but i
grew out of it."
虽然这个例⼦不是很普遍，但是有些⼈因为各种原因，确实有动⼒体
验了以上的过程。然⽽，也许他们并不知道其中的⼒量。⼈们在⼩时
候体验这么⼤的恐惧，很多时候不知道是怎么形成的（除⾮寻求了专
业的帮助），通常是慢慢恢复的。后来，当他们⻓⼤后，如果有⼈问
他遇到了什么事（⽐如，看⻅⼀个⼩孩怕狗），正好想起了过去，他
们就会说 " 过去我怕狗，但现在不怕了 " 。

the end result of the first scenario was that the boy worked through his fear
by de-activating his limiting belief about the nature of dogs. this allowed
him to express himself in a way that he finds pleasing and that otherwise
would have been impossible.
第⼀种情况的结尾是，⼩孩通过去除对狗的信念的活跃性⽽不再害
怕。这样，他就可以快乐地表达⾃⼰了，否则，就没有这个可能。
the second scenario that could result from the child's inadvertent creative
experience with dogs is that he isn't attracted to the possibility of playing
with a dog. in other words, he could not care less about being like the other
children or interacting with dogs. in this case, his belief that all dogs are
dangerous and his new realization that all dogs are not dangerous will exist
in his mental environment as contradictory concepts. this is an example of
what i call an active contradiction, when two active beliefs are in direct
conflict with each other, both demanding expression. in this example, the
first belief exists at a core level in the boy's mental environment, with a
great deal of negatively charged energy. the second belief is at a more
superficial level, and has very little positively charged energy.
第⼆种情况是，⼩孩⽆意中的创造性体验并没有让⼩孩对狗产⽣兴
趣。换句话说，他不希望像其他⼩孩那样和狗玩耍。在这种情况下，
所有狗都是危险的信念和不是所有狗都是危险的新认识会在他的思想
环境⾥形成互相⽭盾的概念，这两个信念互相冲突，都想表达⾃⼰。
本例中，第⼀个信念在⼩孩的思想环境⾥是核⼼的，有⼤量的消极能
量。第⼆个信念是浅薄的，有少量的积极能量。
the dynamics of this situation are interesting, and extremely important. we
have stated that beliefs control our perception of information. under normal
circumstances, the boy would have been perceptually blinded to the
possibility of interacting with dogs, but the experience of seeing other
children playing with them created a positively charged concept in his
mental environment that dogs are not all dangerous; some can be friendly.
however, he hasn't done anything to de-activate the "all" in his belief that
"all dogs are dangerous," and, as far as i know, beliefs have no capacity to
de-activate themselves. as a result, beliefs exist in our mental environment

from the moment they are born to the moment we die, unless we
consciously take steps to deactivate them. however, in this scenario, the boy
has no desire and consequently no motivation to step through his fear.
这个过程有趣，也⾮常重要。我们说过，信念控制我们对信息的解
读。通常，这个⼩孩没意识到要和狗沟通，但是看⻅其他⼩孩和狗玩
耍在他的思想环境⾥产⽣了积极的概念，那就是不是所有的狗都是危
险的，有些狗是友好的。然⽽，他并没有去除 " 所有狗都是危险的 " 信
念中的 " 所有 " 的活跃性，据我所知，信念⽆法⾃⼰接触活跃性。结果
是，从出⽣到死亡，信念都在我们的思想环境⾥⾯，除⾮我们采取错
失去除它们的活跃性。然⽽，在本例中，⼩孩没有欲望，因此没有动
机去体验恐惧。
therefore, the boy is left with an active contradiction where his minimally
charged belief that not all dogs are dangerous gives him the ability to
perceive the possibility of playing with a dog, but his powerfully charged
belief that all dogs are dangerous still causes him to experience some level
of fear every time he encounters a dog (maybe not enough fear to cause him
to run in terror, because some of that fear will be offset by the other belief,
but there will certainly be enough fear to cause a great deal of discomfort).
因此，⼩孩只有微⼩的信念，知道和狗玩耍是可能的，但是他强⼤的
信念总是让他每次遇到狗就害怕（也许不会由害怕变成恐惧，因为有
些害怕被其它信念抵消了，但是还是有⾜够的害怕让他感到⼤量不
安）。
the ability to "see" and consequently know that a situation is not dangerous,
but at the same time find ourselves immobilized with fear, can be quite
baffling if we don't understand that what we discover as the result of
thinking creatively or realize from an inadvertent creative experience
doesn't necessarily have enough energy to become a dominant force in our
mental environment. in other words, our new awareness or discovery could
very well have enough energy to act as a credible force on our perception of
information, thereby causing us to perceive possibilities that would

otherwise be invisible; but it might not have enough energy to act as a
credible force on our behavior. in making this statement, i am operating out
of the assumption that it takes more energy to act or express ourselves than
the amount of energy it takes to observe something.
有能⼒ " 看⻅ " 并知道⾃⼰不危险，但同时发现⾃⼰吓呆了，这确实令
⼈困惑。⼀次创造性的思想或⽆意中的创造性体验并不能产⽣⾜够的
能量于我们的思想环境。换句话说，我们新的意识或发现可以有⾜够
的能量以影响我们对信息的认知，因此可以看⻅以前看不⻅的概率，
但是这个能量也许不⾜以成为改变我们⾏为的⼒量。在这个结论中，
我假定改变⾏动的能量要⽐改变认知的能量多。
on the other hand, new awareness and discoveries instantly and effortlessly
become dominant forces if there's nothing inside us that's in conflict with
them. but if there are conflicting beliefs and we aren't willing to de-activate
the conflicting forces (expending some effort), especially if they're
negatively charged, then acting on what we've discovered will be a struggle
at the very least, and perhaps down right impossible.
另⼀⽅⾯，如果没有内部冲突，新的意识和发现会慢慢地变成主导⼒
量。但是，如果有冲突的信念存在，且我们不想去除冲突信念的活跃
性（需要⼀些努⼒），尤其是它们为消极的，那么我们为新发现的东
⻄⽽做的努⼒是很少的，甚⾄是不可能的。
what i have just described is the psychological dilemma that virtually every
trader has to resolve. let's say you have a firm grasp of the nature of
probabilities and, as a result, you "know" that the next trade is simply
another trade in a series of trades that has a probable outcome. yet you find
you're still afraid to put that next trade on, or you're still susceptible to
several of the fear-based trading errors we've discussed in previous
chapters. remember that the underlying cause of fear is the potential to
define and interpret market information as threatening. what is the source of
our potential to interpret market information as threatening? our
expectations! when the market generates information that doesn't conform
to what we expect, the up and down tics seem to take on a threatening

quality (become negatively charged). consequently, we experience fear,
stress, and anxiety. what is the underlying source of our expectations? our
beliefs.
我说的是⼼理两难，没有交易者都必须解决它。⽐如，你完全了解了
概率，结果是，你 " 知道 " 下⼀步交易也是⼀系列概率交易中的⼀笔。
然⽽，你发现你还是害怕进⾏交易，或者是犯我们之前说的交易错
误。记住，害怕的原因是把市场信息定义解读为有威胁的。我们定义
解读市场信息的根源是什么？我们的期望！如果市场产⽣的信息和我
们的期望不⼀致，那么涨跌看起来就有威胁（消极的）。结果是，我
们体验了害怕、压⼒和焦急。我们期望的根源是什么？我们的信念。
in light of what you now understand about the nature of beliefs, if you are
still experiencing negative states of mind when you trade, you can assume
there's a conflict between what you "know" about probable outcomes and
any number of other beliefs in your mental environment that are arguing
(demanding expression) for something else. keep in mind that all active
beliefs demand expression, even if we don't want them to. to think in
probabilities, you have to believe that every moment in the market is
unique, or more specifically, that every edge has a unique outcome.
现在你已经明⽩了信念的本性，如果你在交易时还受消极思想的影
响，你可以想象你 " 知道 " 可能的结果和其它信念在你的思想环境中争
吵不休（表达什么）。记住所有活跃的信念都需要表达，即使我们不
希望它们这么做。要想⽤概率思考，你必须相信市场中的每个时刻都
是独特的，更具体地说，每个优势都会有独特的结果。
when you believe at a functional level that every edge has a unique outcome
(meaning that it's a dominant belief without any other beliefs arguing for
something different), you will experience a state of mind that is free of fear,
stress, and anxiety when you trade. it really can't work any other way. a
unique outcome is not something we have already experienced, therefore it
is not something we can already know. if it were known, it could not be
defined as unique. when you believe that you don't know what is going to

happen next, what exactly are you expecting from the market? if you said "i
don't know," you are absolutely right. if you believe that something will
happen and that you don't need to know exactly what that something is to
make money, then where's the potential to define and interpret market
information as threatening and painful? if you said "there is none," you are
absolutely right again.
当你相信每个优势都有独特的结果（有⼀个主要信念，不再有其它信
念吵来吵去），你在交易时，你的思想状态就不再害怕，不再有压
⼒，不再焦急。不会再做其它事。独特的结果不是我们已经体验的，
因此也不是我们知道的。如果是我们知道的，那么就不是独特的。当
你不知道下⼀步会如何时，你究竟还在期待市场做什么？如果你
说： " 我不知道 " ，你绝对是对的。如果你知道有些事会发⽣，你不必
知道那是什么都能赚钱，那么是什么要把市场信息定义解读为有威胁
的和痛苦？如果你说 " 根本没什么 " ，那么你再次绝对是对的。
here is one more example of how beliefs demand expression. let's look at a
situation where a child's first encounter with a dog was a very positive
experience. as a result, he has absolutely no problem interacting with dogs
(any dog for that matter), because he has not encountered one that's
unfriendly. therefore, he has no concept (an energized belief) that it is
possible for a dog to inflict any damage or cause him to experience pain.
还有⼀个例⼦说明信念如何要求表达。让我们看看⼀个⼩孩和狗的第
⼀次积极的相遇。结果是，他和狗的沟通完全没有问题（任何狗），
因为他没有遇到过恶⽝。因此，他没有概念（有能量的信念），不知
道狗可能会伤害他或让他痛苦。
as he learns to associate words with his memories, he will probably acquire
a belief along the lines of "all dogs are friendly and fun." therefore, every
time a dog comes into his field of awareness, this belief will demand
expression. from the perspective of someone who … fi with a dog, it will
seem as if this child has an attitude of reckless abandon. if you tried to
convince the child that he'll get bitten someday if he doesn't exercise

caution, his belief will cause him to either discount or completely disregard
your advice. his response would be something like "no way!" or "it can't
happen to me."
当他开始把单词和记忆联系起来时，他可能会得到⼀个信念： " 所有的
狗都是友好的，有趣的 " 。因此，每次遇到⼀只狗，这个信念就要求表
达。从别⼈的⾓度（张轶注：此处英⽂缺失） …… 和狗，看起来似乎
这个⼩孩的态度是奋不顾⾝。如果你尽量告诉⼩孩，如果他不注意，
迟早要被狗咬的。他的反应应该是： " 不可能！ " 或 " 这事不会发⽣在我
⾝上 " 。
let's say at some point in his life he approaches an unfamiliar dog that wants
to be left alone. the dog growls. the warning will go unheeded and the dog
attacks the boy. from the perspective of the boy's belief system, he's just had
a creative experience. what effect will this experience have on his belief
that "all dogs are friendly"? will he now be afraid of all dogs as the child in
the first example was?
有时候他会遇到恶⽝。这只狗咆哮着。⼩孩没注意到警告，这只狗就
攻击了他。从⼩孩的信念系统来看，他正好有了创造性体验。这个体
验对他 " 所有狗都是友好的 " 信念有什么影响？他现在会不会像第⼀个
例⼦的⼩孩那样害怕？
unfortunately, the answers to these questions are not cut and dried, because
there may be other beliefs, also demanding expression, that don't have
anything specifically to do with dogs that come into play in a situation like
this. for example, what if this child has a highly developed belief in betrayal
(he believes he's been betrayed by some very significant people in some
very significant situations that have caused him to experience intense
emotional pain). if he associates the attack by this one dog as a "betrayal"
by dogs in general (in essence a betrayal of his belief in dogs), then he
could easily find himself afraid of all dogs. all of the positive energy
contained in his original belief could instantly be transformed into
negatively charged energy. the boy could justify this shift with a
rationalization like "if one dog can betray me, then any dog can."

不幸地，问题的答案也不是事前准备好的，因为也许有其它信念，也
要表达，但和狗没有什么特别关系。⽐如，如果⼩孩形成的信念是背
叛（在重要场合，他被⼀些重要⼈物背叛过，导致他体验了精神痛
苦），结果如何？如果他认为狗的攻击就是 " 背叛 " （对狗的信念的背
叛），那么他很容易发现⾃⼰怕狗。他原来信念中的所有积极能量很
快转移到消极能量中。这个⼩孩可以很合理地解释说： " 如果⼀只狗背
叛了我，那么任何狗都能背叛我 " 。
however, i do think this is an extreme and very unlikely occurrence. what is
more likely is the word "all" in his original belief will instantly be de-
activated and that energy will get transferred to a new belief that better
reflects the true nature of dogs. this new experience caused an energy shift
that forced him to learn something about the nature of dogs that he
otherwise refused to consider possible. his belief in the friendliness of dogs
remains intact. he will still play with dogs, but he will now exercise some
discretion by consciously looking for signs of friendliness or unfriendliness.
然⽽，我相信这是极端情况，⼀般不会发⽣。可能发⽣的是原来信念
中的单词 " 所有 " 会很快被去除活跃性，能量会被转移到真实反应狗的
信念中。这个新体验让他的能量转移，逼他去了解狗的本性，过去他
拒绝了解。他认为狗是友好的信念没有变。他仍然和狗玩耍，但他现
在会很注意，看看这只狗是友好的，还是不友好的。
i think that a fundamental truth about the nature of our existence is every
moment in the market, as well as in everyday life, has elements of what we
know (similarities) and elements that we don't or can't know because we
haven't experienced it yet. until we actively train our minds to expect a
unique outcome, we will continue experiencing only what we know;
everything else (other information and possibilities that are not consistent
with what we know and expect) will pass us by, unperceived, discounted,
distorted, outright denied, or attacked. when you truly believe that you don't
need to know, you will be thinking in probabilities (the market perspective)
and will have no reason to block, discount, distort, deny, or attack anything
the market is offering about its potential to move in any particular direction.

我想我们存在的基本原因是，在市场中的任何时刻，就像⽣活⼀样，
有些因素我们知道，有些因素我们不知道，因为我们还没有体验过。
除⾮我们积极地训练⾃⼰的思想接受独特的结果，否则我们只会看⻅
⾃⼰想看⻅的东⻄，其它东⻄（其它信息和概率和我们想要的不⼀
致）则被我们忽略了、忽视了、歪曲了、拒绝了或攻击了。⼀旦你真
的相信了你不必知道，你就会考虑概率（市场的⾓度），也不会阻
⽌、忽略、歪曲、拒绝或攻击市场提供的信息，他们有可能决定市场
的⽅向。
if you are not experiencing the quality of mental freedom implied in that
statement, and it is your desire to do so, then you must take an active role in
training your mind to believe in the uniqueness of each moment, and you
must de-activate any other belief that argues for something different. this
process isn't any different from the one the boy in the first scenario went
through, nor is it going to happen by itself. he wanted to interact with dogs
without fear, but to do so he had to create a new belief and de-activate the
conflicting ones. this is the secret to achieving consistent success as a
trader.
如果你没有体验过这样的思想⾃由状态，那么你要努⼒去做，你必须
积极训练⾃⼰的思想相信每个时刻的独特性，你必须去除其它的信念
的活跃性。这个过程和第⼀种情况⾥⼩孩的体验没什么不同，也不会
⾃⼰发⽣。他想和狗沟通，不害怕，但是要做到这点，他必须制造⼀
个新信念，并去除有冲突的信念的活跃性。这是成为持续⼀致的成功
交易者的秘诀。
3. beliefs keep on working regardless of whether we are consciously aware
of their existence in our mental environment. in other words, we don't have
to actively remember or have conscious access to any particular belief for
that belief to act as a force on our perception of information or on our
behavior. i know it s hard to "believe" that something we can't even
remember can still have an impact on our lives. but when you think about it,
much of what we learn throughout our lives is stored at an unconscious or
subconscious level.

不管我们是否知道信念存在于我们的思想环境，信念都会持续⼯作。
换句话说，我们并不需要知道或意识到有什么信念是影响我们认识信
息或⾏为的⼒量。我知道很难 " 相信 " 有什么我们不记得的东⻄在影响
我们的⽣活。但是，当你思考时，会发现我们毕⽣所学到的东⻄都被
有意识地，⽆意识地储存起来。
if i asked you to remember each specific skill you had to learn so that you
could drive a car with confidence, chances are you wouldn't remember all
the things you needed to concentrate and focus on while you were in the
process of learning. the first time i had the opportunity to teach a teenager
how to drive, i was absolutely amazed at how much there was to learn, how
much of the process i took for granted and no longer thought about at a
conscious level.
如果我叫你记住所有技巧，这样你就能⾃信地开⻋，但是在学习时，
你并不能记住所有的技巧。我第⼀次教⼀个⼗⼏岁的年轻⼈开⻋，我
很吃惊地发现要学的东⻄太多了，很多程序都要学，但我⾃⼰已经⽆
意识地掌握了。
possibly the best example that illustrates this characteristic is people who
drive under the influence of alcohol. on any given day or night, there are
probably thousands of people who have had so much to drink that they have
no idea that they have no conscious awareness of how they drove from
point a to point b. it is difficult to imagine how this is possible, unless you
consider that driving skills and one's belief in his ability to drive operate
automatically on a much deeper level than waking consciousness.
最能说明这个特点的是醉酒驾⻋的⼈。不管是哪⼀天，哪⼀个晚上，
总是有⼏千⼈喝醉了酒，他们也不知道⾃⼰是如何把⻋从 a 地开到 b 地
的。很难想象这个概率，开⻋技巧和相信⾃⼰能开⻋的信念同时起作
⽤了，⽐清醒状态还厉害。
certainly, some percentage of these drunk drivers get into accidents, but
when you compare the accident rate with the estimated number of people

driving under the influence of alcohol, it's remarkable that there aren't a
great many more accidents. in fact, a drunk driver is probably most likely to
cause an accident when he either falls asleep or something requires a
conscious decision and a fast reaction. in other words, the driving
conditions are such that operating out of one's subconscious skills is not
enough.
当然，有⼀部分醉酒司机出了事故，但是你⽐较⼀下事故率和醉酒的
⼈，你会吃惊地发现出事故的⼈并不多。实际上，造成事故的原因可
能是醉酒司机睡着了。换句话说，下意识不⼯作是不⾏的。
self evaluation and trading
⾃我评估和交易
how this characteristic applies to our trading is also quite profound. the
trading environment offers us an arena of unlimited opportunities to
accumulate wealth. but just because the money is available and we can
perceive the possibility of getting it, that doesn't necessarily mean that we
(as individuals) have an unlimited sense of self-valuation. in other words,
there could be a huge gap between how much money we desire for
ourselves, how much we perceive is available, and how much we actually
believe we are worth or deserve.
这个特点对我们的交易有深刻的影响。交易环境提供了⼀个⽆限积累
财富的竞技场。但是钱在那⾥，我们以为可以得到它，但这并不以为
这我们（个⼈）有⽆限的⾃我评估。换句话说，我们想要的钱，我们
看到的钱，我们认为我们能得到的钱，这三者之间有巨⼤的落差。
everyone has a sense of self-valuation. the easiest way to describe this sense
is to list every active belief, both conscious and subconscious, that has the
potential to argue either for or against accumulating or achieving greater
and greater levels of success and prosperity. then match the energy from the
positively charged beliefs against the energy from the negatively charged
beliefs. if you have more positively charged energy arguing for success and
prosperity than negatively charged energy arguing against them, then you

have a positive sense of self-valuation. otherwise, you have a negative sense
of self-valuation.
每个⼈都有⾃我评估。最简单的办法就是列出你的信念，包括有意识
的和⽆意识的，这些信念对你的成功或富有起积极作⽤，或消极作
⽤。然后⽐较积极能量和消极能量。如果你的积极能量⽐消极能量
多，那么你的⾃我评估就是积极的。否则，你的⾃我评估就是消极
的。
the dynamics of how these beliefs interact with one another is not nearly so
simple as i'm making it sound. in fact, it can be so complex that it could
take years of sophisticated mental work to organize and sort out. what you
need to know is that it's almost impossible to grow up in any social
environment and not acquire some negatively charged beliefs that would
argue against success or accumulating vast sums of money. most of these
self-sabotaging beliefs have long been forgotten and operate at a
subconscious level, but the fact that we may have forgotten them doesn't
mean they've been de-activated.
这些信念互相作⽤的⼒量没有我说的那么简单。实际上，它很复杂，
也许需要多年的复杂的思想⼯作才能理清楚。你只要知道，在社会环
境中⻓⼤，还没有积累⼤量财富的消极信念是不可能的。⼤部分⾃毁
式的信念存在于我们的潜意识中，我们已经忘了它们，但它们在潜意
识中运作，我们忘了不代表我们已经去除了它们的活跃性。
how do we acquire self-sabotaging beliefs? unfortunately, it's extremely
easy. probably the most common way is when a child engages in some
activity that a parent or teacher doesn't want him to do and the child
accidently injures himself. many parents, to get their point across to the
child, will respond to a situation like this by saying, "this (whatever pain
you are experiencing) wouldn't have happened to you if you didn't deserve
it," or "you disobeyed me and look what happened, god punished you." the
problem with making or hearing statements like this is that there's a
potential for the child to associate every future injury with these same

statements and, subsequently, form a belief that he must be an unworthy
person, undeserving of success, happiness, or love.
我们是如何得到⾃毁的信念的？不幸地说，那很简单。⼀般是⼩时候
我们想做什么事，⽽⽗⺟和⽼师不让做，这样⼩孩就受伤了。很多⽗
⺟，把他们的思想教给⼩孩，⼀般都是在这种情况下说： " 你不配，你
得不到的 " 或 " 你不听我的，看看结果，上帝在惩罚你 " 。⼩孩容易把不
幸和这些话联系起来，结果是，他形成的信念就是成为⼀个不重要的
⼈，不成功的⼈，不快乐的⼈，没有爱的⼈。
anything we feel guilty about can have an adverse effect on our sense of
self-worth. usually guilt is associated with being a bad person, and most
people believe that bad people should be punished, certainly not rewarded.
some religions teach children that having a lot of money isn't godly or
spiritual. some people believe that making money in certain ways is wrong,
even though it may be perfectly legal and moral from society's perspective.
again, you may not have a specific recollection of learning something that
would argue against the success you perceive as possible, but that doesn't
mean that what you learned is no longer having an effect.
我们感到有罪的事都会对我们的⾃我价值造成消极影响。通常，有罪
和坏⼈是联系在⼀起的，⼤部分相信坏⼈应该被惩罚，不应该得到回
报。⼀些宗教告诉⼩孩，得到很多钱是不好的，不神圣的。有些⼈认
为有些赚钱⽅法是错的，即使是合法的也不⾏，符合道德的也不⾏。
也许你不记得学到了对你成功有障碍的东⻄，但是这不意味着你学到
的东⻄没有消极效果。
the way these subconscious self-sabotaging beliefs manifest themselves in
our trading is usually in the form of lapses in focus or concentration,
resulting in any number of trading errors, like putting in a buy for a sell or
vice versa, or allowing yourself to give in to distracting thoughts that
compel you to leave the screen, only to find out when you return that you
missed the big trade of the day. i've worked with many traders who
achieved various levels of consistent success, but found they just couldn't

break through certain thresholds in acquiring equity. they discovered an
invisible but very real barrier similar to the proverbial glass ceiling that
many women executives experience in the corporate world.
这些下意识的⾃毁式通过我们在交易时失去聚焦或注意⼒来表达它
们。导致我们犯⼀些交易错误，⽐如买卖⽅向错误，或者是不看屏
幕，错过了⼤⾏情。我和很多持续⼀致成功的交易者沟通过，但是我
发现他们⽆法逾越累计财富的门槛。他们发现⾃⼰有⼀个隐形的障
碍，就像很多公司的玻璃天花板让⼥性感到不安。
every time these traders hit the barrier, they experienced a significant draw
down, regardless of the market conditions. however, when asked about what
happened, they typically blamed their sudden run of bad luck on just that -
luck or the vagaries of the market. interestingly, they typically created a
steadily rising equity curve, sometimes over a period of several months, and
the significant draw down always occurred at the same spot in their equity
curve. i describe this psychological phenomenon as being in a "negative
zone." as magically as money can flow into a trader's accounts when he is
"in the zone," it can just as easily flow out, if he is in a negative zone where
unresolved self-valuation issues mysteriously act on his perception of
information and behavior.
每当交易者遇到了障碍，不管市场状况如何，他们的资⾦就会缩⽔。
然⽽，如果问他们发⽣了什么事，他们就说是运⽓突然不好了 -- 运⽓
或者是市场的变数。有趣的是，他们的资⾦曲线是稳定增⻓的，有时
能持续⼏个⽉如此，突然的下跌总是发⽣在资⾦曲线同样的地⽅。我
把这个⼼理想象叫做 " 消极状态 " 。他交易者 " 进⼊状态 " 时，钱会神奇
地流⼊他的账户。如果他处在消极状态，⽆法解决⾃我评估对信息认
知和⾏为的影响，钱也可以⼀样轻松地流出去。
i am not implying here that you have to de-activate every belief that would
argue against your ever-expanding positive sense of self-valuation, because
you don't. but you must be aware of the presence of such beliefs, and take