specific steps in your trading regimen to compensate when they start
expressing themselves.
我并不是说你要去除所有对你积极⾃我评估的信念的活跃性，因为你
不会这么做的。但是，你必须了解这些信念在起作⽤，它们会对你的
交易系统有⼀定的影响。
Chapter 11 thinking like a trader

第  11 章  像交易者⼀样思考
if you asked me to distill trading down to its simplest form, i would say that
it is a pattern recognition numbers game. we use market analysis to identify
the patterns, define the risk, and determine when to take profits. the trade
either works or it doesn't. in any case, we go on to die next trade. it's that
simple, but it's certainly not easy. in fact, trading is probably the hardest
thing you'll ever attempt to be successful at. that's not because it requires
intellect; quite the contrary! but because the more you think you know, the
less successful you'll be. trading is hard because you have to operate in a
state of not having to know, even though your analysis may turn out at
times to be "perfectly" correct. to operate in a state of not having to know,
you have to properly manage your expectations. to properly manage your
expectations, you must realign your mental environment so that you believe
without a shadow of a doubt in the five fundamental truths.
如果你让我对交易做个简单的概括，我想说是数字识别游戏。我们⽤
市场分析去确认模式，定义⻛险，决定何时兑现利润。交易要么成
功，要么失败。不管如何，总有⼀次失败。这很简单，但肯定不容
易。事实上，交易是最难成功的。不是因为它需要智慧，事实相反！
因为你以为你知道的越多，你越不会成功。交易难是因为你在交易时
的状态是不必知道，即使你的分析最终证明 " 完全 " 正确。⽤不必知道
的状态去交易，你必须合理地管理好你的期望。为了合理地管理你的

期望，你必须认识你的思想环境，这样你才能毫不保留地相信 5 个基本
事实。
in this chapter, i am going to give you a trading exercise that will integrate
these truths about the market at a functional level in your mental
environment. in the process, i'll take you through the three stages of
development of a trader.
在本章，我想给你⼀个交易练习，这样就能在你的思想环境中融合这
些事实。
the first stage is the mechanical stage. in this stage, you:
第⼀阶段是机械阶段。在这个阶段，你：
1. build the self-trust necessary to operate in an unlimited environment.
2. learn to flawlessly execute a trading system.
3. train your mind to think in probabilities (the five fundamental truths).
4. create a strong, unshakeable belief in your consistency as a trader.
·                              1.         在⽆限的环境中建⽴必要的⾃信。
·                              2.         学习没有缺点地执⾏⼀个交易系统。
·                              3.         训练你的思想⽤概率思考（ 5 个基本事实）。
·                              4.         创造⼀个强壮的，不动摇的信念，以成为持
续⼀致的交易者。
once you have completed this first stage, you can then advance to the
subjective stage of trading. in this stage, you use anything you have ever
learned about the nature of market movement to do whatever it is you want
to do. there's a lot of freedom in this stage, so you will have to learn how to

monitor your susceptibility to make the kind of trading errors that are the
result of any unresolved self-valuation issues i referred to in the last chapter.
⼀旦你完成了第⼀阶段，你可以进阶到交易的⾃觉阶段。在这个阶
段，你可以利⽤你已经学到的任何市场知识去做你想做的事。这个阶
段有很多⾃由度，所以你只要学习如何避免犯错，这些错误是上⼀章
提到的⽆法解决的⾃我评估问题造成的。
the third stage is the intuitive stage. trading intuitively is the most advanced
stage of development. it is the trading equivalent of earning a black belt in
the martial arts. the difference is that you can't try to be intuitive, because
intuition is spontaneous. it doesn't come from what we know at a rational
level. the rational part of our mind seems to be inherently mistrustful of
information received from a source that it doesn't understand. sensing that
something is about to happen is a form of knowing that is very different
from anything we know rationally. i've worked with many traders who
frequently had a very strong intuitive sense of what was going to happen
next, only to be confronted with the rational part of themselves that
consistently, argued for another course of action. of course, if they had
followed their intuition, they would have experienced a very satisfying
outcome. instead, what they ended up with was usually very unsatisfactory,
especially when compared with what they otherwise perceived as possible.
the only way i know of that you can try to be intuitive is to work at setting
up a state of mind most conducive to receiving and acting on your intuitive
impulses.
第三阶段是直觉阶段。凭直觉交易是交易的最⾼境界。这相当于在拳
击中赢得了⿊带。不同的是，你不能尽量尝试有直觉，因为直觉是⾃
发的。直觉并⾮来⾃我们的理性。对于不了解的信息，理性部分会犯
错。感觉到有什么事要发⽣和理性地知道有什么事要发⽣是完全不同
的。和我沟通的很多交易者有很强的直觉，知道下⼀步会如何。如果
他们遇到了⾃⼰的理性部分，这部分的观点是不同的。当然了，如果
他们跟随⾃⼰的直觉，结果⾮常满意。相反，结果通常就不满意。我
只知道，如果你想让直觉⼯作，你就要建⽴直觉的思想状态。

the mechanical stage
机械阶段
the mechanical stage of trading is specifically designed to build the kind of
trading skills (trust, confidence, and thinking in probabilities) that will
virtually compel you to create consistent results. i define consistent results
as a steadily rising equity curve with only minor draw downs that are the
natural consequence of edges that didn't work.
交易的机械阶段是特意设计的，以建⽴交易技术（信任、⾃信和概率
性思考），逼你实现持续⼀致的结果。我把持续⼀致的结果定义为资
⾦曲线的稳定上涨，其间只有⽐较⼩的下跌。
other than finding a pattern that puts the odds of a winning trade in your
favor, achieving a steadily rising equity curve is a function of systematically
eliminating any susceptibility you may have to making the kind of fear,
euphoric or self-valuation based trading errors i have described throughout
this book. eliminating the errors and expanding your sense of self-valuation
will require the acquisition of skills that are all psychological in nature.
不是为了找到机会⼤的，对你有利的模式，实现稳定上涨的资⾦曲线
是为了消灭贯穿本书的交易缺点，⽐如害怕、过分兴奋、⾃我评估。
消灭缺点，扩⼤你的⾃我评估感觉，这都要求掌握⼼理技术。
the skills are psychological because each one, in its purest form, is simply a
belief. remember that the beliefs we operate out of will determine our state
of mind and shape our experiences in ways that constantly reinforce what
we already believe to be true. how truthful a belief is (relative to the
environmental conditions) can be determined by how well it serves us; that
is, the degree to which it helps us satisfy our objectives. if producing
consistent results is your primary objective as a trader, then creating a belief
(a conscious, energized concept that resists change and demands
expression) that "i am a consistently successful trader" will act as a primary
source of energy that will manage your perceptions, interpretations,

expectations, and actions in ways that satisfy the belief and, consequently,
the objective.
技术是⼼理相关的，因为任何技术都是信念。记住，我们的信念会决
定我们的思想状态和体验，并加强我们相信的东⻄。信念越真（相对
于环境状况），越能服务于我们，也就是越能帮助我们实现我们的⽬
标。如果说，交易者的基本⽬标就是持续⼀致的结果，那么创造⼀
个 " 我是持续⼀致的成功者 " 的信念就会成为主要的能量，这个能量会
管理你的认知、解读、期望和⾏动，以满⾜信念和⽬标。
creating a dominant belief that "i am a consistently successful trader"
requires adherence to several principles of consistent success. some of these
principles will undoubtedly be in direct conflict with some of the beliefs
you've already acquired about trading. if this is the case, then what you have
is a classic example of beliefs that are in direct conflict with desire.
创造⼀个主导的 " 我是持续⼀致的成功者 " 的信念需要坚持⼏个原则。
有些原则和你已经有的信念有冲突。如果是这样，信念和欲望就是冲
突的。
the energy dynamic here is no different from what it was for the boy who
wanted to be like the other children who were not afraid to play with dogs.
he desired to express himself in a way that he found, at least initially,
virtually impossible. to satisfy his desire, he had to step into an active
process of transformation. his technique was simple: he tried as hard as he
could to stay focused on what he was trying to accomplish and, little by
little, he de-activated the conflicting belief and strengthened the belief that
was consistent with his desire.
这⾥的能量状态和那个看⻅其他⼩孩和狗玩耍的⼩孩的是⼀样的。他
希望⽤他以前认为不可能的⽅式来表达⾃⼰。为了实现这个欲望，他
需要进⾏⼀些转变。他的技术很简单：他努⼒聚焦于他要做的事，⼀
点⼀点地，他去除了有冲突的信念的活跃性，并加强了和他欲望相关
的信念。

at some point, if that is your desire, then you will have to step into the
process of transforming yourself into a consistent winner. when it comes to
personal transformation, the most important ingredients are your
willingness to change, the clarity of your intent, and the strength of your
desire. ultimately, for this process to work, you must choose consistency
over every other reason or justification you have for trading. if all of these
ingredients are sufficiently present, then regardless of the internal obstacles
you find yourself up against, what you desire will eventually prevail.
如果这是你的欲望，你需要进⾏转变，把⾃⼰变成持续⼀致的赢家。
谈到个⼈的转变，最重要的成分是你愿意转变，你的⽬标清晰，你欲
望的⼒量强⼤。最后，为了实现这个过程，你必须选择持续⼀致作为
你的交易理由，并放弃其它理由。如果这些理由都存在，不管你的内
部障碍是什么，你最期待的事最终会占优势。
observe yourself
观察你⾃⼰
the first step in the process of creating consistency is to start noticing what
you're thinking, saying, and doing. why? because everything we think, say,
or do as a trader contributes to and, therefore, reinforces some belief in our
mental system. because the process of becoming consistent is psychological
in nature, it shouldn't come as a surprise that you'll have to start paying
attention to your various psychological processes. the idea is eventually to
learn to become an objective observer of your own thoughts, words, and
deeds. your first line of defense against committing a trading error is to
catch yourself thinking about it. of course, the last line of defense is to catch
yourself in the act. if you don't commit yourself to becoming an observer to
these processes, your realizations will always come after the experience,
usually when you are in a state of deep regret and frustration.
创造持续⼀致性的第⼀步是关于你想的、你说的、你做的事。为什
么？因为我们想的、说的、做的事都会影响到，并加强我们思想系统
⾥⾯的信念。因为实现持续⼀致是⼀个⼼理过程，这就不奇怪你必须

从关注你的⼼理过程开始。⽬标是最终能客观地观察你的思想、⾔词
和⾏为。防⽌交易犯错的第⼀道防线是不要有错误的思想。当然了，
最后⼀道防线是不要有错误的⾏为。如果你不能承诺⾃⼰会成为观察
者，你就总是先体验，再有认知，这样通常就是深度后悔和深受挫
折。
observing yourself objectively implies doing it without judg …
consequence for what you are… ing about yourself. this might not be so
easy for some of you to do considering the harsh, judgmental treatment you
may have received from other people throughout your life. as a result, one
quickly learns to associate any mistake with emotional pain. no one likes to
be in a state of emotional pain, so we typically avoid acknowledging what
we have learned to define as a mistake for as long as possible. not
confronting mistakes in our everyday lives usually doesn't have the same
disastrous consequences it can have if we avoid confronting our mistakes as
traders.
客观地观察⾃⼰就是 …… （张轶注：此处英⽂缺失）。对于有些⼈来
说，⽤别⼈评判你的⽅式来评判⾃⼰是不太容易的。结果是，很容易
把错误和痛苦联系起来。没有⼈喜欢⾃⼰精神痛苦，所以我们避免定
义⾃⼰的错误。作为交易者，如果我们避免⾯对⾃⼰的错误，通常不
会像⽣活中那样能避免灾难性的结果。
for example, when i am working with floor traders, the analogy i use to
illustrate how precarious a situation they are in is to ask them to imagine
themselves walking across a bridge over the grand canyon. the width of the
bridge is directly related to the number of contracts they trade. so, for
example, for a one-contract trader the bridge is very wide, say 20 feet. a
bridge 20 feet wide allows you a great deal of tolerance for error, so you
don't have to be inordinately careful or focused on each step you take. still,
if you do happen to stumble and trip over the edge, the drop to the canyon
floor is one mile.

⽐如，我和⼀些场内交易者沟通，我让他们想象在⼤峡⾕的桥上⾛路
是多么的谨慎。桥的宽度和他们交易的合约数是相关的。举例说， 1 份
合约相当于桥的 20 英尺宽。 20 英尺宽的桥⾯可以让你不⽤那么⼩⼼，
不⽤那么谨慎，你可以忍受⽐较多的错误。然⽽，如果你不⼩⼼搬到
了，跌出桥⾯，你跌到⼤峡⾕的下⾯还有 1 英⾥。
i don't know how many people would walk across a narrow bridge with no
guardrails, where the ground is a mile down, but my guess is relatively few.
similarly, few people will take the kinds of risks associated with trading on
the floor of the futures exchanges. certainly a one-contract floor trader can
do a great deal of damage to himself, not unlike falling off a mile-high
bridge. but a one-contract trader also can give himself a wide tolerance for
errors, miscalculations, or unusually violent market moves where he could
find himself on the wrong side.
我不知道有多少⼈敢⾛桥⾯窄，没有栏杆，离地⾯ 1 英⾥⾼的桥，我猜
这样的⼈应该很少。同理，很少有⼈敢在场内做期货。当然，和从 1 英
⾥⾼的桥上掉下来不同，交易 1 份合约的交易者也会极⼤地伤害⾃⼰。
但是，只交易 1 份合约的交易者可以忍受⽐较⼤的错误、误算或市场的
剧烈反向波动。
on the other hand, one of the biggest floor traders i ever worked with trades
for his own account with an average position of 500 treasury bond futures at
a time. he often puts on a position of well over a thousand contracts. a
position of 1,000 t-bond contracts amounts to $31,500 per tic (the smallest
incremental price change that a bond contract can make). of course, t-bond
futures can be very volatile and can trade several tics in either direction in a
matter of seconds.
另⼀⽅⾯，我遇到的交易量最⼤的场内交易者，他的账户平均有 500 份
债券期货。他的仓位经常超过 1000 份合约。⼀个有 1000 份债券合约的
账户相当于每变动⼀个基点（债券合约的最⼩变动单位），账户总额
就有 31500 元的账户变化。当然，债券期货的波动很⼤，每秒钟会向任
意⽅向波动⼏个基点。

as the size of a traders position increases, the width of our bridge over the
grand canyon narrows. in the case of the large bond trader, the bridge has
narrowed to the size of a thin wire. obviously, he has to be extremely well-
balanced and very focused on each step that he takes. the slightest misstep
or gust of wind could cause him to fall off the wire. next stop, one mile
down.
当仓位增加时，⼤峡⾕上⾯的桥⾯就变窄了。对这个⼤量交易债券的
交易者来说，桥⾯已经窄到了⼀根铁丝的程度。显然，他必须极⼒平
衡⾃⼰的账户，并⾮常关于⾃⼰的每个动作。⾛错⼀⼩步或轻微的⻛
就能把他吹下铁丝。下⼀站在 1 英⾥下⾯。
now, when he's in the trading pit, that tiny misstep or slight gust of wind is
the equivalent to one distracting thought. that's all, just a thought or
anything else where he allows himself to lose his focus for even a second or
two. in that moment of distraction, he could miss his last favorable
opportunity to liquidate his position. the next price level with enough
volume to take him out of his trade could be several tics away, either
creating a huge loss or forcing him to give a substantial winning trade back
to the market.
现在，他在场内的交易柜台，⾛错⼀⼩步或轻微的⻛相当于分⼼。也
就是说，只要他在 1 ， 2 秒内有⼀个想法或任何想法，导致他⽆法关注
于⾃⼰。当他分⼼时，他就错过了最后的平仓机会。能再次平仓的位
置可能是⼏个基点以外了，要么是⼤亏，要么是把赢的很多钱⼜送还
给市场。
if producing consistent results is a function of eliminating errors, then it is
an understatement to say that you will encounter great difficulty in
achieving your objective if you can't acknowledge a mistake. obviously, this
is something very few people can do, and it accounts for why there are so
few consistent winners. in fact, the tendency not to acknowledge a mistake
is so pervasive throughout mankind, it could lead one to assume that it's an
inherent characteristic of human nature. i do not believe this is the case, nor

do i believe we are born with the capacity to ridicule or think less of
ourselves for making a mistake, miscalculation, or error.
如果产⽣持续⼀致性的结果就是要消灭错误，如果你不知道错误是什
么，保守地说，你会⾯对很多苦难。显然，很少⼈能做到，所以只有
少数⼈能成为持续⼀致的赢家。实际上，⼈类是很固执的，⼀般不愿
意去承认⾃⼰的错误，所以⼀般⼈认为这是天⽣的⼈性。我不这么认
为，也不相信我们天⽣就只会嘲笑，或根本不考虑我们的错误、误算
或犯错。
making mistakes is a natural function of living and will continue to be until
we reach a point at which:
犯错是⼈⽣的⾃然功能，如果不做到以下程度，会继续犯错的：
1. all our beliefs are in absolute harmony with our desires, and
2. all our beliefs are structured in such a way that they are completely
consistent with what works from the environment's perspective.
·                              1.         所有的信念和我们的欲望是和谐的，且
·                              2.         所有的信念的结构和环境是⼀致的。
obviously, if our beliefs are not consistent with what works from the
environments perspective, the potential for making a mistake is high, if not
inevitable. we won't be able to perceive the appropriate set of steps to our
objective. worse, we won't be able to perceive that what we want may not
be available, or available in the quantity we desire or at the time when we
want it.
显然，如果我们的信念和环境不⼀致，那么犯错的概率就⾼。我们就
⽆法采取合适的⽅法实现⽬标。更糟糕的是，我们可能不知道我们想
要的东⻄不存在，或数量不够，或时间不对。

on the other hand, mistakes that are the result of beliefs that are in conflict
with our objectives aren't always apparent or obvious. we know they will
act as opposing forces, expressing their versions of the truth on our
consciousness, and they can do that in many ways. the most difficult to
detect is a distracting thought that causes a momentary lapse in focus or
concentration. on the surface this may not sound significant. but, as in the
analogy of the bridge over the canyon, when there's a lot at stake, even a
slightly diminished capacity to stay focused can result in an error of
disastrous proportions. this principle applies whether it's trading, sporting
events, or computer programming. when our intent is clear and
undiminished by any opposing energy, then our capacity to stay focused is
greater, and the more likely it is that we will accomplish our objective.
另⼀⽅⾯，信念和我们的⽬标的冲突总是不明显，也会产⽣错误。它
们会成为相反的⼒量，并多次⽤⾃⼰的⽅式在我们的意识中表达⾃
⼰。最难发现的就是分⼼，导致我们⽆法专注于⾃⼰。表明上，这听
起来很明显。但是这和桥⾯的⽐喻⼀样，微⼩的分⼼都能导致灾难。
不管是交易、体育⽐赛、或编程，道理都是⼀样的。当我们的⽬标清
晰，能量没有减少，那么我们的聚焦能⼒就强，我们就有可能实现⽬
标。
earlier i defined a winning attitude as a positive expectation of our efforts,
with an acceptance that whatever results we do get are a perfect reflection
of our level of development and what we need to learn to do better. what
separates the "consistently great" athletes and performers from everyone
else is their distinct lack of fear of making a mistake. the reason they aren't
afraid is that they don't have a reason to think less of themselves when they
do make a mistake, meaning they don't have a reservoir of negatively
charged energy waiting to well up and pounce on their conscious thought
process like a lion waiting for the right moment to pounce on its intended
prey. what accounts for this uncommon capacity to quickly move beyond
their errors without criticizing themselves? one explanation may be that
they grew up with extremely unusual parents, teachers, and coaches, who
by their words and examples taught them to correct their miscalculations
and errors with genuine love, affection, and acceptance. i say "extremely
unusual" because many of us grew up with just the opposite experience. we

were taught to correct our mistakes or miscalculations with anger,
impatience, and a distinct lack of acceptance. is it possible that, for the great
athletes, their past positive experiences with respect to mistakes caused
them to acquire a belief that mistakes simply point the way to where they
need to focus their efforts to grow and improve themselves?
之前，我把赢家态度定义为对努⼒的积极期待，并接受结果为我们发
展的和需要的。 " 持续⼀致 " 的运动员和表演家和别⼈的区别就是不怕
犯错。他们不怕的原因是当他们犯错时，他们没有理由不重视⾃⼰，
意味着他们不像狮⼦静静地等待猎物并猛扑上去那样让消极的能量储
蓄起来然后突然爆发。是什么让他们快速⾏动，不怪罪⾃⼰的？⼀个
解释是，也许他们成⻓时的⽗⺟、⽼师、教练都绝对不是常⼈，他们
⽤⾃⼰纯粹的爱、呵护和接受教他们如何改正错误。我说 " 绝对不是常
⼈ " 因为⼤部分⼈的成⻓环境正好相反。我们总是被迫⽆奈地，愤怒
地，不耐烦地，⽆法接受地去改正我们的错误。是不是可以这么说，
⼤部分伟⼤的运动员，他们犯错时的积极体验让他们得到了⼀个信
念，那就是错误仅仅是他们成⻓发展路上的东⻄。
with a belief like that, there's no source of negatively charged energy and
consequently no source for self-denigrating thoughts. however, the rest of
us, who did grow up experiencing a plethora of negative reactions to our
actions, would naturally acquire beliefs about mistakes: "mistakes must be
avoided at all costs," "there must be something wrong with me if i make a
mistake," "i must be a screw-up," or "i must be a bad person if i make a
mistake."
有了这样的信念，消极的能量⽆处藏⾝，他们也不会⾃我贬低。然
⽽，我们其他⼈都是在对我们的错误的过度反应中⻓⼤的，得到的关
于犯错的信念是： " ⽤⼀切代价避免犯错 "" 如果我犯错了，我肯定有问
题 "" 我⼀定搞砸了 " 或者 " 如果我犯错了，我⼀定是个坏⼈ " 。
remember that every thought, word, and deed reinforces some belief we
have about ourselves. if, by repeated negative self-criticism, we acquire a
belief that we're "screw-ups," that belief will find a way to express itself in

our thoughts, causing us to become distracted and to screw up; on our
words, causing us to say things about ourselves or about others (if we notice
the same characteristics in them) that reflect our belief; and on our actions,
causing us to behave in ways that are overtly self-sabotaging.
记住，每个想法、单词、和⾏为会加强我们的⼀些信念。如果总是消
极地⾃我批评，我们的信念就是 " 我总是把事情搞砸 " ，这样的信念就
会找到⽅法⾃我表达，导致我们容易分⼼，容易搞砸事情；在词语
上，导致我们说别⼈（如果我们注意到了他们同样的特征）或⾃⼰的
话都反应了我们的信念；在⾏为上，导致我们的⾏为是过度⾃毁的。
if you're going to become a consistent winner, mistakes can't exist in the
kind of negatively charged context in which they are held by most people.
you have to be able to monitor yourself to some degree, and that will be
difficult to do if you have the potential to experience emotional pain if and
when you find yourself in the process of making an error. if this potential
exists, you have two choices:
如果你要成为持续⼀致的赢家，就不能有别⼈那样的消极的⾔词和错
误。你要在⼀定程度上监视⾃⼰，如果你容易体验精神痛苦，你就发
现这么做是困难的。如果你容易这样，你有两个选择：
1. you can work on acquiring a new set of positively charged beliefs about
what it means to make a mistake, along with de-activating any negatively
charged beliefs that would argue otherwise or cause you to think less of
yourself for making a mistake.
2. if you find this first choice undesirable, you can compensate for the
potential to make errors by the way you set up your trading regime. this
means that if you're going to trade and not monitor yourself, but at the same
time you desire consistent results, then trading exclusively from the
mechanical stage will resolve the dilemma.
·                              1.         对于犯错，你可以得到⼀套新的积极的信
念，并去除消极信念的活跃性，⼀⾯导致你犯错。

·                              2.         如果你不喜欢这个选择，你可以改变你的交
易系统也减少你犯错的概率。这意味着，如果你要交易，但没有监视
⾃⼰，同时你⼜渴望持续⼀致的结果，那么就⽤机械的⽅法交易以解
决这个两难。
otherwise, learning how to monitor yourself is a relatively simple process
once you have rid yourself of negatively charged energy associated with
mistakes. in fact, it's easy. all you have to do is decide why you want to
monitor yourself, which means you first need to have a clear purpose in
mind. when you're clear about your purpose, simply start directing your
attention to what you think, say, or do.
或者，如果你能去除和犯错相关的消极能量，学习如何监视⾃⼰就简
单了。事实就很简单。你搞明⽩你为什么要监视⾃⼰就⾏了，这意味
着你⾸先要⽬标明确。⼀旦你的⽬标明确了，然后把焦点放到你的想
法、说法和⾏动上。
if and when you notice that you're not focused on your objective or on the
incremental steps to accomplish your objective, choose to redirect your
thoughts, words, or actions in a way that is consistent with what you are
trying to accomplish. keep redirecting as often as necessary. the more
willfully you engage in this process, especially if you can do it with some
degree of conviction, the faster you will create a mental framework free to
function in a way that is consistent with your objectives, without any
resistance from conflicting beliefs.
⼀旦你发现⾃⼰并没有专注于⾃⼰的⽬标，或者是没有向⽬标接近，
可以把你的思想、⾔词或⾏动转向和你⽬标⼀致的⽅向。如果有必
要，⼀直做这个转向。你这么做的意愿越强，甚⾄你有决⼼，那么你
就能制造⼀个思想环境，它的功能和你的⽬标⼀致，和你的信念也不
冲突。
the role of self-discipline

⾃律的作⽤
i call the process i just described self-discipline. i define self-discipline as a
mental technique to redirect (as best we can) our focus of attention to the
object of our goal or desire, when that goal or desire conflicts with some
other component (belief) of our mental environment.
我把以上过程叫⾃律。我把⾃律定义为⼀种思想技术，当我们的⽬标
或欲望和我们思想环境的其它东⻄（信念）有冲突时，我们的思想技
术能让我们的关注焦点转向⽬标或欲望。
the first thing you should notice about this definition is that self-discipline
is a technique to create a new mental framework. it is not a personality trait;
people aren't born with self-discipline. in fact, when you consider how i
define it, being born with discipline isn't even possible. however, as a
technique to be used in the process of personal transformation, anybody can
choose to use self-discipline.
⾸先你要注意定义说⾃律是产⽣新的思想结构的技术。它不是个⼈的
特点，⼈们天⽣没有⾃律性。实际上，如果你想想我是如何定义的，
天⽣就有⾃律是不可能的。然⽽，技术是⽤来让⼈们转变的，任何⼈
都可以选择⾃律。
here is an example from my life that illustrates the underlying dynamics of
how this technique works. in 1978 i decided that i wanted to become a
runner. i don't exactly remember what my underlying motivation was,
except that i had spent the previous eight years in a very inactive life style. i
wasn't involved with any sports or hobbies, unless you call watching
television a hobby.
我本⼈的例⼦说明了这个技术是如何运作的。 1978 年我决定跑步。我
已经忘了当时的动机是什么，反正之前的 8 年我不怎么活跃。除了对看
电视有兴趣，我并没有任何体育兴趣。

previously in both high school and at least part of college i was very active
in sports, especially ice hockey. however, coming out of college, my life
was unfolding in the way that was very different from what i had expected.
it was not to my liking, but at the time i felt powerless to do anything about
it. this led to a period of inactivity, which is a nice way of saying that i was
severely depressed.
之前，在⾼中和⼤学，我对体育有兴趣，尤其是冰球。然⽽，⼤学毕
业后，我发现⽣活和我想象的不⼀样。我不喜欢当时的⽣活，但没有
⼒量去改变什么。这就导致了我的沉闷，也可以直接说我相当郁闷。
again, i'm not sure what prompted me to suddenly want to become a runner
(maybe i saw some tv program that sparked my interest). i do, however,
remember that the motivation was very strong. so, i went out and bought
myself some running shoes, put them on, and went out to run. the first thing
i discovered was that i couldn't do it. i didn't have the physical stamina to
run more than fifty or sixty yards. this was very surprising. i didn't realize,
nor would i have ever believed, that i was so out of shape that i couldn't run
even a hundred yards. this realization was so disheartening that i didn't
attempt to run again for two or three weeks. the next time out, i still couldn't
run more than fifty or sixty yards. i tried again the next day with, of course,
the same result. i became so discouraged about my deteriorated physical
condition that i didn't run again for another four months.
我也不知道是什么东⻄突然叫我想去跑步（也许是电视节⽬激起了我
的兴趣）。我只知道当时的动机⾮常强烈。所以，我出去买了⼀些跑
鞋，穿上就出去跑。我很快发现我不能跑。我的体⼒最多只能跑 50 或
60 码。这很奇怪。我不知道，也不相信我的体⼒连 100 码都跑不到。这
个认识太让我伤⼼了，其后的 2 ， 3 周，我都没有跑。后来⼜出去跑，
还是不能超过 50 或 60 码。当然，第⼆天我⼜尝试了，还是⼀样的结
果。我对⾃⼰体质的下降⾮常失望，受了挫折，其后的 4 个⽉我都没有
跑。
now, it's the spring of 1979. i'm once again determined to become a runner,
but, at the same time, very frustrated with my lack of progress. as i was

contemplating my dilemma, it occurred to me that one of my problems was
that i didn't have a goal to work towards. saying that i wanted to be a runner
was great, but what did that mean? i really didn't know; it was too vague
and abstract. i had to have something more tangible to work towards. so i
decided that i wanted to be able to run five miles by the end of the summer.
到了 1979 年春天。我再次决定去跑步，但是同样⼜深受挫折。当时我
在思考我的两难，我发现我的问题来⾃我没有⽬标。我想跑步是对
的，但这意味着什么？我真的不知道，这个太模糊了，太抽象了。我
需要⼀个清晰的⽬标。所以，我决定在秋天之前能跑 5 英⾥。
five miles seemed insurmountable at the time, but thinking that i might be
able to do it generated a lot of enthusiasm. this increased level of
enthusiasm gave me enough impetus to run four times that week. at the end
of this first week, i was really surprised to discover even a little bit of
exercise improved my stamina and ability to run a little farther each time.
this created even more enthusiasm, so i went out and bought a stop watch
and blank book to be used as a running diary. i set up a two-mile course,
and marked off each quarter mile. in the diary i entered the date, my
distance, my time, and how i felt physically each time i ran.
当时觉得 5 英⾥这个⽬标很难实现，但是我的想法还是给了我很多激
情。上涨的激情刺激我⼀周跑 4 次。第⼀周结束时，我吃惊地发现每次
的练习都能让我跑的更远。这就让我更有激情，所以我去买了⼀个秒
表和空⽩本⼦做跑步记录。我设置了 2 英⾥的⽬标，并记录了每英⾥的
四分之⼀处。我在本⼦⾥记录了⽇期、跑过的距离、时间以及我⾝体
的感觉。
now i thought i was well on my way to the five miles, until i literally ran
into my next set of problems. the biggest were the conflicting and
distracting thoughts that flooded my consciousness every time i decided i
wanted to go out and run. i was amazed at the number (and intensity) of the
reasons i found for not doing it: "it's hot [or] cold outside," "it looks like it's
going to rain," "i'm still a little tired from the last time i ran (even though it
was three days ago)," "nobody else i know is doing this," or the most

prevalent, "i'll go as soon as this tv program is over" (of course i never
went).
现在我向 5 英⾥进军了，但是⼜遇到了⼀个问题。每次当我想出去跑步
时，我意识中的分⼼就引起了冲突。我为⾃⼰找了很多借⼝，数量惊
⼈： " 外⾯很热（或冷） "" 看样⼦要下⾬ "" 上次跑过以后（即使是 3 天
以前），我到现在都很累 "" 别⼈都不会像我这样跑步 " 或者是更普遍
的： " 当电视节⽬结束了，我就去跑（当然我从来没有去跑） " 。
i didn't know any other way to deal with this conflicting mental energy
except to redirect my conscious attention on what i was trying to
accomplish. i really wanted to get to five miles by the end of the summer. i
found that sometimes my desire was stronger than the conflict. as a result, i
managed to get my running shoes on, actually step outside, and start
running. however, more times than not, my conflicting and distracting
thoughts caused me to stay put. in fact, in the beginning stages, i estimate
that two-thirds of the time i was unable to get past the conflicting energy.
我不知道如何处理这个冲突的思想能量，只好转移我们的注意⼒。我
真的想在秋天以前跑 5 英⾥。有时候，我发现我的欲望⽐冲突还要强。
结果是，我努⼒穿上跑鞋，⾛出去，开始跑。然⽽，很多时候，我那
冲突的分⼼总是让我坐在家⾥。实际上，在开始阶段，我估计有三分
之⼆的时间我不能克服这个冲突的能量。
the next problem i encountered was that when i started approaching the
point where i was able to run one mile, i was so thrilled with myself that it
occurred to me i was going to need an additional mechanism to get me to
the five miles. i reasoned that once i got to the point where i could run two
or maybe three miles, i would be so overwhelmingly pleased with myself
that i wouldn't feel any need to fulfill my five-mile objective. so i made a
rule for myself. you could call it the five-mile rule. "if i managed to get my
running shoes on and get outside in spite of all the conflicting thoughts
trying to talk me out of it, i committed myself to running at least one step
farther than the last time i ran." it was certainly all right if i ran more than
one step further, but it couldn't be less than one step, no matter what. as it

turns out, i never broke this rule, and by the end of the summer, i made it to
five miles.
我遇到的第⼆个问题是，当我快能跑 1 英⾥时，我太激动了，我需要⼀
个机械系统来帮助我实现 5 英⾥。每当我能跑 2 或 3 英⾥时，我就⾼兴地
想，实在没有必要再去跑 5 英⾥了。所以我定了⼀个原则。也就是 5 英
⾥原则。 " 如果我努⼒穿上了鞋，并摆脱了冲突思想的限制⾛出了门，
那么我就承诺我这次要⽐上次多跑⼀步。 " 多跑⼀步是可以的，但不可
以少跑⼀步，不管是什么情况。我⼀直遵守了这个原则，到了夏天结
束时，我真的能跑 5 英⾥了。
but then, something really interesting and completely unanticipated
happened before i got there. as i got closer to fulfilling my five-mile
objective, little by little, the conflicting thoughts began to dissipate.
eventually they didn't exist at all. at that point, i found that if i wanted to
run, i was completely free to do so without any mental resistance, conflict,
or competing thoughts. given what a struggle it had been, i was amazed (to
say the least). the result: i went on to run on a very regular basis for the next
16 years.
但在当时，在我实现之前，确实发⽣了有趣的和没想到的事。当我⼀
点⼀点地，离 5 英⾥的⽬标越来越近时，冲突的思想开始消失了。最终
什么都没有了。那时，我发现只要我想跑，我可以好不犹豫地跑，没
有任何阻⼒、冲突或对抗的想法。想想之前是多么的困难，我很吃
惊。结果是：后来的 16 年，我都在坚持跑步。
for those of you who may be interested, i don't run so much now because
five years ago i decided to start playing ice hockey again. hockey is an
extremely strenuous sport. sometimes i play as many as four times a week.
considering my age (over 50) and the level of exertion the sport requires, it
usually takes me a day or two to recover, which doesn't leave much room
for running any more.

如果你们有兴趣追问下去，我现在已经不跑了，因为 5 年前我决定玩冰
球。冰球是⾮常费⼒的运动。有时候我⼀周要玩 4 次。考虑到我的年龄
（ 50 以上。张轶注：英⽂此处不清楚）以及这个运动要求的体⼒，我
需要花 1 ， 2 天去恢复，我就没有体⼒再去跑步了。
now, if you take these experiences and put them into the context of what we
now understand about the nature of beliefs, there are a number of
observations we can make:
如果你把这些体验放⼊你对信念的理解，那么就能说明⼏点：
1. initially, my desire to be a runner had no foundation of support in my
mental system. in other words, there was no other source of energy (an
energized concept demanding expression) consistent with my desire.
⼀开始，我想要跑步的想法并没有在我的思想系统⾥得到⽀持。换句
话说，没有其它能量（有能量的，需要表达的概念）来⽀持我们的欲
望。
2. i actually had to do something to create that support. to create a belief
that "i am a runner" required that i create a series of experiences consistent
with the new belief. remember that everything we think, say, or do
contributes energy to some belief in our mental system. each time i
experienced a conflicting thought and was able to successfully refocus on
my objective, with enough conviction to get me into my running shoes and
out the door, i added energy to the belief that "i am a runner." and, just as
important, i inadvertently drew energy away from all of the beliefs that
would argue otherwise. i say inadvertently because there are various
techniques specifically designed to identify and de-activate conflicting
beliefs, but at that time in my life, i didn't understand the underlying
dynamics of the process of transformation i was going through. so, it
wouldn't have occurred to me to avail myself of such techniques.
我真的需要创造⼀些⽀撑。为了创造⼀个 " 我能跑 " 的信念，我需要创
造⼀系列的体验来⽀持这个信念。记住，我们想的、说的、做的，都

会对我们思想系统中的信念补充能量。每次当我有了冲突的想法，⽆
法专注于我的⽬标，不能穿鞋往外跑时，我就告诉⾃⼰ " 我能跑 " 以给
⾃⼰的信念补充能量。同样重要的是，我不经意地消除相反信念的能
量。我说 " 不经意地 " 是因为有很多技术能确认并去除有冲突的信念的
活跃性，但是在当时，我并不明⽩我转变的内在动⼒。所以，别⼈也
可以掌握这个技术，不仅仅是我。
3. now i can effortlessly (from a mental perspective) express myself as a
runner, because "i am a runner." that energized concept is now a functioning
part of my identity. when i first started out, i happened to have a number of
conflicting beliefs about running. as a result, i needed the technique of self-
discipline to become one. now i don't need self-discipline because "being a
runner" is "who i am." when our beliefs are completely aligned with our
goals or desires, there's no source of conflicting energy. if there's no source
of conflicting energy, then there's no source of distracting thoughts,
excuses, rationalizations, justifications, or mistakes (conscious or
subconscious).
现在我可以轻松地说我能跑，因为 " 我能跑 " 。这个有能量的概念是我
的⼀部分功能。当我第⼀次出发时，我有很多关于跑步的冲突的信
念。结果是，我需要⾃律这个技术以证明⾃⼰能跑。现在，我不需要
⾃律了，因为 " 我本来就能跑 " 。当我们的信念和我们的⽬标或欲望完
全⼀致时，冲突的能量就⽆法存在了。如果没有冲突的能量，就不会
分⼼了，不会找借⼝了，不会解释了，不会合理化了，不会犯错了
（有意识地或⽆意识地）。
4. beliefs can be changed, and if it's possible to change one belief, then it's
possible to change any belief, if you understand that you really aren't
changing them, but are only transferring energy from one concept to
another. (the form of the belief targeted for change remains intact.)
therefore, two completely contradictory beliefs can exist in your mental
system, side by side. but if you've drawn the energy out of one belief and
completely energized the other, no contradiction exists from a functional
perspective; only the belief that the energy will have the capacity to act as a

force on your state of mind, on your perception and interpretation of
information, and your behavior.
如果你知道你并没有真的改变信念，只是把能量从这个转到那个就叫
改变信念，如果⼀个信念可以被改变，那么任何信念都可能被改变。
因此，两个完全⽭盾的信念可以同时存在于你的思想系统。但是，如
果你已经把⼀个信念的能量消除了，并把能量完全给了另⼀个，那么
你的认知就没有了⽭盾。前提是信念的能量可以影响你的思想状态、
认知、对信息的解读和你的⾏为。
now, the sole purpose of trading mechanically is to transform yourself into a
consistently successful trader. if there's anything in your mental
environment that's in conflict with the principles of creating the belief that
"i am a consistently successful trader,"    then you will need to employ the
technique of self-discipline to integrate these principles as a dominant,
functioning part of your identity. once the principles become "who you are,"
you will no longer need self-discipline, because the process of "being
consistent" will become effortless.
现在，机械交易的唯⼀⽬标是把你转变成持续⼀致成功的交易者。如
果说你思想环境中还有什么和 " 我是持续⼀致成功的交易者 " 这个信念
相冲突的话，那么你就需要采⽤⾃律的技术以把这些原则变成你的主
导的，有功能的你的⼀部分。⼀旦原则变成了 " 真正的你 " ，你就不再
需要⾃律，因为实现 " 持续⼀致 " 是毫不费⼒的。
remember that consistency is not the same as the ability to put on a winning
trade, or even a string of winning trades for that matter, because putting on
a winning trade requires absolutely no skill. all you have to do is guess
correctly, which is no different than guessing the outcome of a coin toss,
whereas consistency is a state of mind that, once achieved, won't allow you
to "be" any other way. you won't have to try to be consistent because it will
be a natural function of your identity. in fact, if you have to try, it's an
indication that you haven't completely integrated the principles of consistent
success as dominant, unconflicted beliefs.

记住，持续⼀致不是指有能⼒实现⼀连串的赢利，因为⼀连串的赢利
绝对不需要技术。你所要做的是猜对，这和掷硬币是⼀个道理，然⽽
持续⼀致性是⼀种思想状态，⼀旦拥有，不会变成其它样⼦。你不必
尝试要成为持续⼀致，因为这是你的⾃然功能。实际上，如果你必须
尝试，那说明你没有完全把持续⼀致成功的原则变成主导的，不冲突
的信念。
for example, predefining your risk is a step in the process of "being
consistent." if it takes any special effort to predefine your risk, if you have
to consciously remind yourself to do it, if you experience any conflicting
thoughts (in essence, trying to talk you out of doing it), or if you find
yourself in a trade where you haven't predefined your risk, then this
principle is not a dominant, functioning part of your identity. it isn't "who
you are." if it were, it wouldn't even occur to you not to predefine your risk.
⽐如，提前衡量⻛险是 " 持续⼀致 " 的⼀个过程。如果你要努⼒尝试去
提前衡量⻛险，如果你要有意识地提醒⾃⼰这么做，如果你在体验冲
突的思想（在思想挣扎），如果你在交易时发现⾃⼰没有提前衡量⻛
险，那么就说明这个原则并没有成为你的主导的，⾝体的⼀部分功
能。你 " 没有进⼊状态 " ，否则，你不会不提前衡量⻛险的。
if and when all of the sources of conflict have been de-activated, there's no
longer a potential for you to "be" any other way. what was once a struggle
will become virtually effortless. at that point, it may seem to other people
that you are so disciplined (because you can do something they find
difficult, if not impossible), but the reality is that you aren't being
disciplined at all; you are simply functioning from a different set of beliefs
that compel you to behave in a way that is consistent with your desires,
goals, or objectives.
⼀旦所有的冲突的都被去除了活跃性，那么你就再也不⽤ " 成为 " 持续
⼀致了。过去在挣扎，现在毫不费⼒。此时，别⼈会觉得你很有纪
律，但现实是你没有纪律。你只是被⼀些信念逼着做和你的欲望、⽬
标、愿望不⼀致的事。

creating a belief in consistency
创造⼀个相信持续⼀致性的信念
creating a belief that "i am a consistent winner" is the primary objective, but
like my intention to become a runner, it's too broad and abstract to
implement without breaking it down into a step-by-step process. so what
i'm going to do is break this belief down into its smallest definable parts and
then give you a plan to integrate each part as a dominant belief. the
following sub-beliefs are the building blocks that provide the underlying
structure for what it means "to be a consistent winner."
创造⼀个 " 我是持续⼀致的赢家 " 的信念是基本的⽬标，但是，和我想
跑步的想法⼀样，如果不分解成⼀步⼀步的过程，它是很深奥的。所
以，我们把这个信念分解成可以定义的很⼩的部分，然后教你如何把
它们组成⼀个主导的信念。以下的⼩信念是组成 " 成为持续⼀致赢
家 " 的砖块。
i am a consistent winner because:
我是持续⼀致的赢家，因为
1. i objectively identify my edges.
2. i predefine the risk of every trade.
3. i completely accept risk or i am willing to let go of the trade.
4. i act on my edges without reservation or hesitation.
5. i pay myself as the market makes money available to me.
6. i continually monitor my susceptibility for making errors.
7. i understand the absolute necessity of these principles of consistent
success and, therefore, i never violate them.

·                              1.         我客观地确认我的优势。
·                              2.         每笔交易前，我提前衡量⻛险。
·                              3.         我完全接受⻛险，否则我愿意放弃这笔交
易。
·                              4.         我根据优势交易时没有任何保留或犹豫。
·                              5.         我⾃⼰让市场为我赚钱。
·                              6.         我监视我犯错的可能。
·                              7.         我明⽩这些原则对持续⼀致成功的必要性，
因此，我绝不会违反它们。
these beliefs are the seven principles of consistency. to integrate these
principles into your mental system at a functional level requires that you
purposely create a series of experiences that are consistent with them. this is
no different from the boy who wanted to play with dogs or my desire to be a
runner. before he could play with a dog, the boy first had to make several
attempts just to get close to one. eventually, as the balance of energy in his
mental system shifted, he could play with dogs without any internal
resistance. to become a runner, i had to create the experience of running in
spite of everything inside me that argued otherwise. eventually, as the
energy shifted more and more in favor of this new definition of myself,
running became a natural expression of my identity.
这些信念是 7 个持续⼀致性的原则。要想把这些原则融于你的思想系统
并起作⽤，你要可以制造和持续⼀致性⼀致的体验。这和⼩孩想和狗
玩，或我想跑步都是⼀个道理。要想和狗玩耍，⼩孩⾸先要尝试和狗
接近。最终，当他思想系统中的能量的平衡发⽣转移时，他就没有任
何内⼼的阻⼒和狗玩耍了。要想跑步，我必须克服内⼼的挣扎以创造

⼀个跑步的体验。最终，当能量越来越多地向新的我转移时，跑步变
成了我的⾃然表达。
obviously, what we're trying to accomplish here is far more complex than
becoming a runner or petting a dog, but the underlying dynamics of the
process are identical. we'll start with a specific objective. the first principle
of consistency is the belief, "i objectively identify my edges." the key word
here is objectively. being objective means there's no potential to define,
interpret, and therefore perceive any market information from either a
painful or euphoric perspective. the way to be objective is to operate out of
beliefs that keep your expectations neutral and to always take the unknown
forces into consideration.
显然，我们现在要尝试的事⽐跑步或和狗玩要复杂，但是内部的过程
是⼀样的。我们⼀开始要有具体的⽬标。第⼀个持续⼀致的原则是 " 我
客观地确认我的优势 " 这个信念。关键词是客观地。客观意味着不能从
痛苦或过分兴奋的⾓度来定义、解读和认知市场信息。客观就是你的
期望是中性的，总是要把各种未知因素考虑在内。
remember, you have to specifically train your mind to be objective and to
stay focused in the "now moment opportunity flow." our minds are not
naturally wired to think this way, so to be an objective observer you have to
learn to think from the market's perspective. from the market's perspective,
there are always unknown forces (traders) waiting to act on price
movement. therefore, from the market's perspective, "every moment is truly
unique," even though the moment may look, sound, or feel exactly the same
as some moment logged away in your memory bank.
记住，你必须刻意训练你的思想客观并聚焦于 " 现在的机会流 " 。我们
的思想不会天⽣这么想，所以要想成为客观的观察者，你必须学习从
市场的⾓度思考。从市场的⾓度来说，总是有未知的⼒量（交易者）
等着影响价格的波动。因此，从市场的⾓度来说，即使你看⻅的、听
⻅的或感觉到的和你记忆中的⼀模⼀样， " 每个时刻都是独特的 " 。

the instant you either decide or assume you know what's going to happen
next, you will automatically expect to be right. however, what you know, at
least at the rational level of thinking, can only take into consideration your
unique past, which may not have any relationship to what is actually
happening from the markets perspective. at that point, any market
information that is not consistent with your expectation has the potential to
be defined and interpreted as painful. to avoid experiencing the pain, your
mind will automatically compensate, with both conscious and subconscious
pain-avoidance mechanisms, for any differences between what you expect
and what the market is offering.
⼀旦你决定或认为你知道下⼀步会如何，你就⾃动地期望⾃⼰是对
的。然⽽，你知道的东⻄只是和过去有关系，和市场没有什么关系。
此时，市场中的任何信息，如果和你的期望不⼀致，你就会感到痛
苦。为了避免这种痛苦，你的思想就会有意识地，⽆意识地⽤痛苦回
避系统进⾏补偿市场和你期望之间的差别。
what you will experience is commonly referred to as an "illusion." in a state
of illusion, you are neither objective nor connected to the "now moment
opportunity flow." instead, you become susceptible to committing all the
typical trading errors (hesitating, jumping the gun, not predefining your
risk, defining your risk but refusing to take the loss and letting the trade turn
into a bigger loser, getting out of a winning trade too soon, not taking any
profits out of a winning trade, letting a winning trade turn into a loser,
moving a stop closer to your entry point, getting stopped out and watching
the market trade back in your favor, or trading too large a position in
relationship to your equity). the five fundamental truths about the market
will keep your expectations neutral, focus your mind in the "now moment
opportunity flow" (by disassociating die present moment from your past),
and, therefore, eliminate your potential to commit these errors.
你将要体验的⼀般被称作 " 幻想 " 。在幻想状态，你既不客观，也不知
道 " 现在的机会流 " 。相反，你容易犯典型的交易错误（犹豫，提前⾏
动，不提前衡量⻛险，拒绝⽌损，⼤亏，提前兑现利润，赢利时没有
兑现利润，让赢利变成了亏损，⽌损离进场点太近，被⽌损了，然后

市场远离你⽽去，仓位太⼤）。 5 个基本的事实会让你的期望保持中
性，思想聚焦于 " 现在的机会流（不要怀念过去） " ，因此，让你不再
犯错了。
when you stop making trading errors, you'll begin trusting yourself. as your
sense of self-trust increases, so will your sense of self-confidence. the
greater your confidence, the easier it will be to execute your trades (act on
your edges without reservation or hesitation). the five truths will also create
a state of mind in which you will genuinely accept the risks of trading.
when you genuinely accept the risks, you will be at peace with any
outcome. when you're at peace with any outcome, you will experience a
carefree, objective state of mind, where you make yourself available to
perceive and act upon whatever the market is offering you (from its
perspective) at any given "now moment."
当你不再犯错，你就开始相信⾃⼰了。当你不断地相信⾃⼰，你就会
感到⾃信。你越⾃信，越容易执⾏交易（利⽤优势时没有保留或犹
豫）。 5 个事实还会创造⼀种思想环境，你在⾥⾯就会彻底接受交易的
⻛险。当你彻底接受了交易的⻛险，你就对任何结果坦然了。当你对
任何结果坦然了，你就会体验开放，客观的思想状态，你就会认知并
抓住市场在 " 任何时刻 " 提供的任何机会。
the first objective is to integrate as a dominant belief, "i objectively identify
my edges." the challenge now is, how do you get there? how do you
transform yourself into a person who can consistently think in the market's
perspective?
第⼀个⽬标是把 " 我客观地确认我们的优势 " 变成主导信念。挑战是，
你如何办到？你如何把⾃⼰转变成⼀个从市场⾓度思考的持续⼀致的
⼈？
the process of transformation starts with your desire and your willingness to
refocus on the object of your desire (self-discipline). desire is a force. it
does not have to coincide or agree with anything that you currently believe
to be true about the nature of trading. a clear desire aimed squarely at a

specific objective is a very powerful tool. you can use the force of your
desire to create an entirely new version or dimension to your identity; shift
energy between two or more conflicting concepts; or change the context or
polarity of your memories from negative to positive.
这个转变过程从你的欲望和意愿转移到你的欲望上⾯开始（⾃律）。
欲望是⼒量。它和你现在关于交易的任何观点都不⼀致。明确的具体
的欲望是强有⼒的⼯具。你可以利⽤欲望创造⼀个全新的⾃⼰，让能
量从冲突的概念⾥转移，或者是把你的记忆从消极变成积极。
i'm sure you are familiar with the saying, "make up your mind." the
implication of "making up our minds" is that we decide exactly what we
desire with so much clarity (absolutely no lingering doubts) and with so
much conviction that literally nothing stands in our way, either internally or
externally. if there's enough force behind our resolve, it's possible to
experience a major shift in our mental structure virtually instantaneously.
de-activating internal conflicts is not a function of time; it's a function-
focused desire (although it can take a considerable amount of time to get to
the point where we really make up our minds). otherwise, in the absence of
extreme clarity and conviction, the technique of self-discipline, over time,
will do the job quite nicely (if, of course, you're willing to use it).
我们经常听别⼈说： " 你快做决定啊 " 。这⾥的含义是，我们做的决定
就是我们的欲望，很清晰（绝对没有迟疑），没有任何东⻄能挡住我
们，不管是内部的，还是外部的。如果有⼒量存在，我们会体验到很
⼤的⼒量在思想⾥⾯移动。去除内部冲突的活跃性不是时间的问题，
是欲望的功能（虽然需要⼀定的时间做决定）。否则，如果没有清
晰、确信、⾃律，这个⼯作就是安静地完成的（如果你愿意这样
做）。
to get there, you must "make up your mind," with as much conviction and
clarity as possible, that more than anything else you desire consistency (the
state of mind of trust, confidence, and objectivity) from your trading. this is
necessary because if you're like most traders, you're going to be up against
some very formidable conflicting forces. for example, if you've been

trading to get high from the euphoria of catching a big move, to impress
your family and friends, to be a hero, to fulfill an addiction to random
rewards, to be right about your predictions, or for any other reason that has
nothing to do with being consistent, then you'll find the force of these other
motivations will not only act as an obstacle making the trading exercise i'm
about to give you very difficult, but it could very well be strong enough
even to keep you from doing the exercise at all.
要想这样，你必须 " 做决定 " ，要⽐任何交易的持续⼀致（相信、⾃信
和客观）都要⾃信和明确。这是必须的。如果你像⼤部分交易者⼀
样，你⼜会体验⼀些可怕的冲突⼒量。⽐如，如果你在交易时因为抓
到了⼤⾏情⽽过度兴奋，为了向家⼈和朋友炫耀，成为英雄，得到意
外的回报，预测准确，或者是其它和持续⼀致⽆关的原因，那么你会
发现其它的动机的⼒量，这些⼒量不但成为交易的障碍，⽽且强到你
⽆法做交易。
remember the boy who had no desire to be like the other children and
interact with dogs? in essence, he decided to live with the active
contradiction between his minimally charged positive belief that not all
dogs are dangerous and his core, negatively charged belief that all dogs are
dangerous. he had the ability to perceive friendly dogs, but at the same time
found it impossible to interact with them. unless he desires to change it, the
imbalance of energy between these two beliefs will stay exactly as it is for
his entire life.
还记得那个⼩孩吗？他不愿意像其他⼩孩⼀样和狗玩耍。他的积极的
不是所有的狗都是危险的信念和他消极的所有的狗都是危险的信念互
相⽭盾，他必须忍受这个⽭盾。他有能⼒看⻅友好的狗，但是同时⽆
法做到和狗沟通。除⾮他有改变的欲望，否则这两个不平衡的信念会
在他⾝上⼀直存在。
to even start this process, you have to want consistency so much that you
would be willing to give up all the other reasons, motivations, or agendas
you have for trading that aren't consistent with the process of integrating the

beliefs that create consistency. a clear, intense desire is an absolute
prerequisite if you're going to make this process work for you.
为了开始这个过程，你对持续⼀致的要求必须⾮常强烈，为此你可以
放弃其它的原因、动机、计划，他们都是和持续⼀致不⼀致的。如果
你想让这个过程有作⽤，⼀个明确的，强烈的欲望是绝对是前提条
件。
Exercise: learning to trade an edge like a
casino

练习：向赌场学习利⽤优势交易
the object of this exercise is to convince yourself that trading is just a
simple game of probabilities (numbers), not much different from pulling the
handle of a slot machine. at the micro level, the outcomes to individual
edges are independent occurrences and random in relationship to one
another. at the macro level, the outcomes over a series of trades will
produce consistent results.
这个练习的⽬的是让你相信交易就是简单的概率（数字）游戏，和拉
吃⾓⼦⽼虎机的拉杆没多⼤区别。微观地说，每个个⼈的优势都是独
⽴和随机的。宏观地说，⼀系列的交易是可以实现持续⼀致的结果
的。
from a probabilities perspective, this means that instead of being the person
playing the slot machine, as a trader, you can be the casino, if:
从概率的⾓度来说，作为交易者，你并不是⼀个⼈在玩吃⾓⼦⽼虎
机，你也可以是赌场，只要：
1. you have an edge that genuinely puts the odds of success in your favor;

2. you can think about trading in the appropriate manner (the five
fundamental truths); and
3. you can do everything you need to do over a series of trades.
·                              1.         你有优势，对你有利的概率会很⼤；
·                              2.         你可以⽤合适的⽅式来交易（ 5 个基本事
实）；且
·                              3.         在⼀连串交易的基础上，你可以做任何事。
then, like the casinos, you will own the game and be a consistent winner.
然后，像赌场⼀样，你会拥有这个游戏，你会成为持续⼀致的玩家。
setting up the exercise
设置练习
pick a market. choose one actively traded stock or futures contract to trade.
it doesn't matter what it is, as long as it's liquid and you can afford the
margin requirements for trading at least three hundred shares or three
futures contracts per trade.
选择⼀个市场。选择⼀个活跃的股票和期货进⾏交易。不必在乎是什
么，只要流动性好，你付得起保证⾦，⾄少能⼀次交易 300 股或 3 份合
约。
choose a set of market variables that define an edge. this can be any trading
system you want. the trading system or methodology you choose can be
mathematical, mechanical, or visual (based on patterns in price charts). it
doesn't matter whether you personally design the system or purchase it from
someone else, nor do you need to take a long time or be too picky trying to
find or develop the best or right system. this exercise is not about system
development and it is not a test of your analytical abilities.

选择⼀些变数以定义优势。这是任何交易系统都要做的事。你的交易
系统或交易⽅法可以是数学的、机械的、或视觉的（根据图表模
式）。是不是你⾃⼰设计的，还是你买来的，都不重要，你不必花时
间精挑细选或形成⾃⼰最好的系统。这个练习不是关于系统的，也不
是测试你的分析能⼒。
in fact, the variables you choose can even be considered mediocre by most
traders' standards, because what you are going to learn from doing this
exercise is not dependent upon whether you actually make money. if you
consider this exercise an educational expense, it will cut down on the
amount of time and effort you might otherwise expend trying to find the
most profitable edges.
实际上，你可以选择⼀个⼤部分交易者使⽤的普通变数，因为你会从
这个练习中学到的并⾮你是否能赚钱。如果你把这个练习看成是⼀个
教育活动，这样就能节约时间和体验，免得你以为要找到最赚钱的优
势。
for those of you who might be wondering, i'm not going to make any
specific recommendations about what system or variables you should use,
because i assume that most of the people reading this book are already well
schooled in technical analysis. if you need additional assistance, there are
hundreds of books available on the topic, as well as system vendors who are
more than willing to sell you their ideas. however, if you've made a genuine
attempt to do this on your own but are still having problems picking a
system, you can contact me at markdouglas.com or tradinginthezone.com
and i will make some recommendations.
你们有些⼈会猜测，我没有具体推荐任何系统或变数，因为我相信任
何读这本书的⼈都已经学了技术分析。如果你需要更多的帮助，书店
有⼏百本书谈这些话题的书，还有⼀些卖系统的商⼈也很愿意把他们
的思想卖给你。然⽽，如果你确实想⾃⼰做，但是有⽆法选择⼀个系
统，你可以通过⽹站 markdouglas.com 或 tradinginthezone.com 联系我，
我会给你⼀些推荐。

whatever system you choose to use has to fit within the following
specifications.
不管你选择的是什么系统，他应该符合以下特点。
trade entry. the variables you use to define your edge have to be absolutely
precise. the system has to be designed so that it does not require you to
make any subjective decisions or judgments about whether your edge is
present. if the market is aligned in a way that conforms with the rigid
variables of your system, then you have a trade; if not, then you don't have a
trade. period! no other extraneous or random factors can enter into the
equation.
进场点。你定义优势的变数必须绝对精确。你的系统不能让你有主观
决定或判断。如果市场和你的系统符合，那么你就要交易。如果不符
合，你就不要交易。这个过程中不能有外部的事件或随机的因素中
断。
stop-loss exit.  the same conditions apply to getting out of a trade that's not
working. your methodology has to tell you exactly how much you need to
risk to find out if the trade is going to work. there is always an optimum
point at which the possibility of a trade not working is so diminished,
especially in relationship to the profit potential, that you're better off taking
your loss and getting your mind clear to act on the next edge. let the market
structure determine where this optimum point is, rather than using an
arbitrary dollar amount that you are willing to risk on a trade.
⽌损点。和平仓不⼀样。你的⽅法必须明确地告诉你最多承受多少⻛
险，并最后平仓。总是有⼀些极好的点，在这些点位，交易失败的概
率很⼩，尤其是赢利的时候。让市场结构去决定最好的点在哪⾥，不
要⾃⼰武断地去判断。
in any case, whatever system you choose, it has to be absolutely exact,
requiring no subjective decision making. again, no extraneous or random
variables can enter into the equation.

不管是哪种情况，不敢你选择的是什么系统，它要绝对的准确，不能
主观做决定。再次申明，外部的和随机的变数不能⼲扰这个过程。
time frame. your trading methodology can be in any time frame that suits
you, but all your entry and exit signals have to be based in the same time
frame. for example, if you use variables that identify a particular support
and resistance pattern on a 30-minute bar chart, then your risk and profit
objective calculations also have to be determined in a 30-minute time
frame.
时间周期。你的交易⽅法可以根据你的情况使⽤任何时间周期，但是
所有的进场和出场信号必须是根据同⼀个时间周期。⽐如，如果你根
据 30 分钟⽵型图确认单⽀撑和阻⼒，那么你的⻛险和利润⽬标也要根
据 30 分钟图来计算。
however, trading in one time frame does not preclude you from using other
time frames as filters. for example, you could have as a filter a rule that
states you're only going to take trades that are in the direction of the major
trend. there's an old trading axiom that "the trend is your friend." it means
that you have a higher probability of success when you trade in the
direction of the major trend, if there is one. in fact, the lowest-risk trade,
with the highest probability of success, occurs when you are buying dips
(support) in an up-trending market or selling rallies (resistance) in a down-
trending market.
然⽽，在同⼀个时间周期交易并不排除你⽤其它时间周期来过滤。⽐
如，你准备顺着主趋势交易。有⼀句⽼的格⾔叫： " 趋势是你的朋
友 " 。它意味着如果你交易的⽅向和主趋势⼀致，那么你成功的概率
⾼。实际上，⻛险最低，成功概率⾼的交易发⽣在上涨的回调（⽀
撑）和下跌的反弹（阻⼒）之处。
to illustrate how this rule works, let's say that you've chosen a precise way
of identifying support and resistance patterns in a 30-minute time frame as
your edge. the rule is that you are only going to take trades in the direction
of the major trend. a trending market is defined as a series of higher highs

and higher lows for an up-trending market and a series of lower highs and
lower lows for a down-trending market. the longer the time frame, the more
significant the trend, so a trending market on a daily bar chart is more
significant than a trending market on a 30-minute bar chart. therefore, the
trend on the daily bar chart would take precedence over the trend on the 30-
minute bar chart and would be considered the major trend.
为了说明这个原则如何⼯作，假如说你利⽤ 30 分钟图的精准地定义了
⽀撑和阻⼒，作为你的优势。你只会在顺势时进⾏交易。有趋势的市
场就是上涨时⼀个⾼点⽐⼀个⾼点⾼，⼀个低点⽐⼀个低点⾼。下跌
时相反。时间周期越⻓，趋势越明显，所以⽇线图上的趋势⽐ 30 分钟
图上的趋势明显。因此，⽇线图上的趋势就是主趋势。
to determine the direction of the major trend, look at what is happening on a
daily bar chart. if the trend is up on the daily, you are only going to look for
a sell-off or retracement down to what your edge defines as support on the
30-minute chart. that's where you will become a buyer. on the other hand, if
the trend is down on the daily, you are only going to look for a rally up to
what your edge defines as a resistance level to be a seller on the 30-minute
chart.
为了确定主趋势的⽅向，看看⽇线图上如何。如果⽇线图上趋势向
上，你就要在 30 分钟图上等待回调到⽀撑区。此时你要买⼊。另⼀放
卖弄，如果⽇线图上是下跌的，你就要在 30 分钟图上找到反弹时的卖
点。
your objective is to determine, in a down-trending market, how far it can
rally on an intraday basis and still not violate the symmetry of the longer
trend. in an up-trending market, your objective is to determine how far it
can sell off on an intraday basis without violating the symmetry of the
longer trend. there's usually very little risk associated with these intraday
support and resistance points, because you don't have to let the market go
very far beyond them to tell you the trade isn't working.

你的⽬标实在下跌的市场决定它能反弹到哪⾥，还不能破坏⻓期趋
势。在上涨的市场，你的⽬标是决定它下跌到哪⾥，还不能破坏⻓期
趋势。⼀般对于这种⽇内的⽀撑和阻⼒，⻛险⽐较⼩，因为市场⾛的
太远，你就知道有问题了。
taking profits. believe it or not, of all the skills one needs to learn to be a
consistently successful trader, learning to take profits is probably the most
difficult to master. a multitude of personal, often very complicated
psychological factors, as well as the effectiveness of one's market analysis,
enter into the equation. unfortunately, sorting out this complex matrix of
issues goes way beyond the scope of this book. i point this out so that those
of you who might be inclined to beat yourselves up for leaving money on
the table can relax and give yourselves a break. even after you've acquired
all the other skills, it might take a very long time before you get this one
down pat.
兑现利润。不管你信不信，所有成为持续⼀致成功交易者的技术中，
如何兑现利润是最难学的。要综合考虑很多⼈的因素，复杂的⼼理因
素，和每个⼈的分析。不幸地是，本书并不讨论如何理清这么复杂的
矩阵。我把这个指出来，这样痛宰你的⼈也许会收⼿，让你休息⼀
下。即使你掌握了这么多技术，也要很多时间消化。
don't despair. there is a way to set up a profit-taking regime that at least
fulfills the objective of the fifth principle of consistency ("i pay myself as
the market makes money available to me"). if you're going to establish a
belief in yourself that you're a consistent winner, then you will have to
create experiences that correspond with that belief. because the object of the
belief is winning consistently, how you take profits in a winning trade is of
paramount importance.
不要绝望。有⼀个办法可以建⽴兑现利润的⽅法，且符合 5 个基本原则
的持续⼀致的⽬标（我⾃⼰让市场帮我赚钱）。如果你想建⽴你是持
续⼀致的赢家的信念，那么你就要创造⼀个和这个信念⼀致的体验。
因为信念的⽬标是持续⼀致地赢，那么如何兑现利润就⾮常重要。

this is the only part of the exercise in which you will have some degree of
discretion about what you do. the underlying premise is that, in a winning
trade, you never know how far the market is going to go in your direction.
markets rarely go straight up or straight down. (many of the nasdaq internet
stocks in the fall of 1999 were an obvious exception to this statement.)
typically, markets go up and then retrace some portion of the upward move;
or go down and then retrace some portion of the downward move.
本练习中，这是唯⼀需要谨慎的地⽅。⾔下之意，如果你的仓位是赚
钱的，你根本不知道你要赚多少。市场不是直上直下（ 1999 年秋天很
多纳斯达克的互联⽹股票都是例外）。⼀般，市场上涨后会回调，或
者是下跌后会反弹。
these proportional retracements can make it very difficult to stay in a
winning trade. you would have to be an extremely sophisticated and
objective analyst to make the distinction between a normal retracement,
when the market still has the potential to move in the original direction of
your trade, and a retracement that isn't normal, when the potential for any
further movement in the original direction of your trade is greatly
diminished, if not nonexistent.
这种回调和反弹让你很难持有赢利的仓位。你必须⾮常有经验，还要
客观，以确定是不是正常的回调，市场是不是还要沿着原⽅向前进。
if you never know how far the market is going to go in your direction, then
when and how do you take profits? the question of when is a function of
your ability to read the market and pick the most likely spots for it to stop.
in the absence of an ability to do this objectively, the best course of action
from a psychological perspective is to divide your position into thirds (or
quarters), and scale out the position as the market moves in your favor. if
you are trading futures contracts, this means your minimum position for a
trade is at least three (or four) contracts. for stocks, the minimum position is
any number of shares that is divisible by three (or four), so you don't end up
with an odd-lot order.

如果你不知道是否市场对你继续有利，那么你如何兑现利润呢？这个
问题要求你有能⼒解读市场并找到⽐较好的出场点。如果没有能⼒客
观地处理，最好的办法就是把你的仓位分成 3 份（或 4 份），根据市场
的波动来分配仓位。如果你交易的是期货，这要求你⾄少交易 3 份合约
（或 4 份）。对于股票，最少的股数要能被 3 （或 4 ）整除，这样你不会
出现散股。
here's the way i scale out of a winning position. when i first started trading,
especially during the first three years (1979 through 1981), i would
thoroughly and regularly analyze the results of my trading activities. one of
the things i discovered was that i rarely got stopped out of a trade for a loss,
without the market first going at least a little way in my direction. on
average, only one out of every ten trades was an immediate loser that never
went in my direction. out of the other 25 to 30 percent of the trades that
were ultimately losers, the market usually went in my direction by three or
four tics before revising and stopping me out. i calculated that if i got into
the habit of taking at least a third of my original position off every time the
market gave me those three or four tics, at the end of the year the
accumulated winnings would go a long way towards paying my expenses. i
was right. to this day, i always, without reservation or hesitation, take off a
portion of a winning position whenever the market gives me a little to take.
how much that might be depends on the market; it will be a different
amount in each case. for example, in treasury bond futures, i take a third of
my position off when i get four tics. in the s&p futures, i take a third off for
a profit of one and a half to two full points.
我是这样分配赢利的仓位的。当我 1971 年到 1981 年开始炒股时，我可
以完全分析我的交易⾏为。我发现我很少亏损。平均地说， 10 笔交易
中只有 1 笔是亏损的。在最终亏损交易中的 25--30% 中，我曾经都赚了
⼏个基点。我计算了⼀下，如果我能养成习惯，当我赚了⼏个基点
时，我就平掉⾄少三分之⼀的仓位，这样到了年底，我的赢利应该超
过我的付出。我是对的。即使在今天，只要是赢利的仓位，我就会毫
不保留，毫不犹豫地兑现部分赢利的仓位。根据市场不同，我平仓的
数量不同，每次都不同。⽐如，债券期货，如果我赚了 4 个基点，我会

平仓三分之⼀。对于标准普尔股指期货，如果我赚了 1.5--2 个点，我就
平仓三分之⼀。
in a bond trade, i usually don't risk more than six tics to find out if the trade
is going to work. using a three-contract trade as an example, here's how it
works: if i get into a position and the market immediately goes against me
without giving me at least four tics first, i get stopped out of the trade for an
18-tic loss, but as i've indicated, this doesn't happen often. more likely, the
trade goes in my favor by some small amount before becoming a loser. if it
goes in my favor by at least four tics, i take those four tics on one contract.
what i have done is reduce my total risk on the other two contracts by 10
tics. if the market then stops me out of the last two contracts, the net loss on
the trade is only 8 tics.
在债券交易中，我所冒的⻛险⼀般不超过 6 个基点。⽤ 3 份合约的交易
做例⼦，情况是这样的：如果我建仓了，市场⽴刻对我不利，连 4 个基
点的利润都没有，我⽌损时就亏损了 18 个基点，但是我说了，这样的
事并不经常发⽣。⼤部分情况下，市场对我不利之前还是对我有利
的。如果对我有利 4 个基点，我平仓 1 份合约。那么剩下来 2 份合约的⻛
险是 10 个基点。如果市场⼜让我⽌损了，我的净亏损只是 8 个基点。
if i don't get stopped out on the last two contracts and the market moves in
my direction, i take the next third of the position off at some predetermined
profit objective. this is based on some longer time frame support or
resistance, or on the test of a previous significant high or low. when i take
profits on the second third, i also move the stop-loss to my original entry
point. now i have a net profit on the trade regardless of what happens to the
last third of the position.
如果市场对我有利，最后 2 份合约没有被⽌损，我在特定的⽬标平仓第
2 份合约。这是根据⻓期的时间周期的⽀撑或阻⼒决定的，或者是根据
对前期⾼低点的测试来做决定的。当我平仓第 2 份合约时，我会把⽌损
点设置成原先的进场点。这样对于最后 1 份合约，不管市场怎么⾛，我
的净利润都是正数。

in other words, i now have a "risk-free opportunity." i can't emphasize
enough nor can the publisher make the words on this page big enough to
stress how important it is for you to experience the state of "risk-free
opportunity." when you set up a situation in which there is "risk-free
opportunity," there's no way to lose unless something extremely unusual
happens, like a limit up or limit down move through your stop. if, under
normal circumstances, there's no way to lose, you get to experience what it
really feels like to be in a trade with a relaxed, carefree state of mind.
换句话说，我现在有 " ⽆⻛险的机会 " 。我不知道怎么强调，也不知道
如何把本⻚的字放⼤，才能让你明⽩ " ⽆⻛险的机会 " 是多么的重要。
⼀旦你实现了 " ⽆⻛险的机会 " ，除⾮有意外，像涨停或跌停，⼀般是
不会亏损的。如果在平时，你遇到了不会亏损的情况，你就有机会体
验什么叫放松和⽆忧⽆虑。
to illustrate this point, imagine that you are in a winning trade; the market
made a fairly significant move in your direction, but you didn't take any
profits because you thought it was going even further. however, instead of
going further, the market trades all the way back to or very close to your
original entry point. you panic and, as a result, liquidate the trade, because
you don't want to let what was once a winning trade turn into a loser. but as
soon as you're out, the market bounces right back into what would have
been a winning trade. if you had locked in some profits by scaling out,
putting yourself in a risk-free opportunity situation, it s very unlikely that
you would have panicked or felt any stress or anxiety for that matter.
为了说明这点，想象你的仓位是赢利的，市场对你有利，但是你没有
兑现利润，因为你想市场还要⾛的更远。然⽽，市场没有⾛的更远，
市场⼜回到了你的进场点附近。你慌张了，结果是平仓了。但是当你
刚平仓，市场有涨回去了。如果你已经锁定了部分利润，进⼊了没有
⻛险的机会，那么你就不会慌张，或感到焦急。
i still have a third of my position left. what now? i look for the most likely
place for the market to stop. this is usually a significant high or low in a
longer time frame. i place my order to liquidate just below that spot in a

long position or just above that spot in a short position. i place my orders
just above or just below because i don't care about squeezing the last tic out
of the trade. i have found over the years that trying to do that just isn't worth
it.
我还有三分之⼀的仓位，现在该怎么办？我寻找市场最可能会停下来
的点位。通常这是⻓周期明显的⾼低点。如果是做多的，我就把单⼦
下在最⾼点下⾯⼀点点；如果是做空的，我就把单⼦下在最低点的上
⾯⼀点点。我这么做是因为我不想连最后⼀个基点都要去赚。多年
来，我明⽩这个尝试是不值得的。
one other factor you need to take into consideration is your risk-to-reward
ratio. the risk-to-reward ratio is the dollar value of how much risk you have
to take relative to the profit potential. ideally, your risk-to-reward ratio
should be at least 3:1, which means you are only risking one dollar for
every three dollars of profit potential. if your edge and the way you scale
out of your trades give you a 3:1 risk-to-reward ratio, your winning trade
percentage can be less than 50 percent and you will still make money
consistently.
你还要考虑⼀个因素，那就是你的⻛险回报⽐。也就是⻛险和可能利
润的⾦额⽐。⽐较理想的⻛险回报⽐⾄少是 3:1 ，这意味着你愿意冒 1
元的⻛险去赚 3 元的潜在利润。如果你的优势让你的⻛险回报⽐是
3:1 ，你赢利的概率低于 50% ，你仍然可以继续持续⼀致地赚钱。
a 3:1 risk-to-reward ratio is ideal. however, for the purposes of this exercise,
it doesn't matter what it is, nor does it matter how effectively you scale out,
as long as you do it. do the best you can to pay yourself at reasonable profit
levels when the market makes the money available. every portion of a trade
that you take off as a winner will contribute to your belief that you are a
consistent winner. all the numbers will eventually come into better
alignment as your belief in your ability to be consistent becomes stronger.
3:1 的⻛险回报⽐是理想的。然⽽，从这个练习的⽬的来说，这个不重
要，你的资⾦分配也不重要。当市场条件有利时，尽⼒去扩⼤利润。

每次赢利都会让你相信你是持续⼀致的赢家。每个数字都会最终和你
的信念⼀致，让你持续⼀致地强壮。
trading in sample sizes. the typical trader practically lives or dies
(emotionally) on the results of the most recent trade. if it was a winner, he'll
gladly go to the next trade; if it wasn't, he'll start questioning the viability of
his edge. to find out what variables work, how well they work, and what
doesn't work, we need a systematic approach, one that doesn't take any
random variables into consideration. this means that we have to expand our
definition of success or failure from the limited trade-by-trade perspective
of the typical trader to a sample size of 20 trades or more.
按照确定的数字交易。⼀般交易者受近期的交易影响。如果是赢家，
他会⾼兴地继续交易。如果是输家，他会怀疑⾃⼰的优势。为了搞明
⽩哪个变数起作⽤，它们是如何⼯作的，⼯作原理是什么，我们需要
⼀个系统的⽅法，这个⽅法不会考虑随机的变数。这意味着我们不能
⼀次⼜⼀次地交易以定义成功或失败，我们⽤确定的数字，⽐如 20 笔
或更多。
any edge you decide on will be based on some limited number of market
variables or relationships between those variables that measure the market's
potential to move either up or down. from the market's perspective, each
trader who has the potential to put on or take off a trade can act as a force
on price movement and is, therefore, a market variable. no edge or technical
system can take into consideration every trader and his reasons for putting
on or taking off a trade. as a result, any set of market variables that defines
an edge is like a snapshot of something very fluid, capturing only a limited
portion of all the possibilities.
你所⽤的任何变数可能是根据⼀些市场变数或这些变数之间的关系。
从市场的⾓度来说，每个交易者进场或出场都会影响价格的波动，因
此也是市场变数。没有任何优势或技术能考虑到每个交易者的进场或
出场理由。结果是，任何定义优势的市场变数都像是对液体的快照，
只是抓住了概率的⼀部分。

when you apply any set of variables to the market, they may work very well
over an extended period of time, but after a while you may find that their
effectiveness diminishes. that's because the underlying dynamics of the
interaction between all the participants (the market) is changing. new
traders come into the market with their own unique ideas of what is high
and what is low, and other traders leave. little by little, these changes affect
the underlying dynamics of how the market moves. no snapshot (rigid set of
variables) can take these subtle changes into consideration.
当你运⽤任何变数时，也许他们在相当⻓的⼀段时间都有效，但是过
了⼀段时间，你发现他们的效果消失了。那是因为所有参与者（市
场）之间的动⼒发⽣了改变。新的交易者进⼊市场，他们对⾼低的看
法是独特的，其他交易者离开了。慢慢地，这些变化影响了市场波动
下⾯的⼒量。没有办法去考虑这些微妙的变化。
you can compensate for these subtle changes in the underlying dynamics of
market movement and still maintain a consistent approach by trading in
sample sizes. your sample size has to be large enough to give your variables
a fair and adequate test, but at the same time small enough so that if their
effectiveness diminishes, you can detect it before you lose an inordinate
amount of money. i have found that a sample size of at least 20 trades
fulfills both of these requirements.
你可以弥补这些微妙的变化，并⽤⼀致的⽅式交易。你测试的次数要
⾜够⼤，以给你的变数⼀个公平和充⾜的测试，同时，也要⼩，以防
⽌它们的有效性降低，如果你亏损了很多钱，你就知道它失效了。我
发现⾄少要交易 20 笔，才能同时满⾜这些条件。
testing. once you decide on a set of variables that conform to these
specifications, you need to test them to see how well they work. if you have
the appropriate software to do this, you are probably already familiar with
the procedures. if you don't have testing software, you can either forward
test your variables or hire a testing service to do it for you. if you need a
recommendation for a testing service, contact me at markdouglas.com or
tradinginthezone.com for a referral. in any case, keep in mind that the

object of the exercise is to use trading as a vehicle to learn how to think
objectively (in the market's perspective), as if you were a casino operator.
right now, the bottom-line performance of your system isn't very important,
but it is important that you have a good idea of what you can expect in the
way of a win-to-loss ratio (the number of winning trades relative to the
number of losing trades for your sample size).
测试。⼀旦你确认了你的变数符合这些要求，你就要测试它们，看看
是否有效。如果你有合适的软件去做，你可能早就熟悉了过程。如果
你没有测试软件，你可以让测试公司帮你测试。如果你需要测试公司
的推荐，可以通过 markdouglas.com 或 tradinginthezone.com 找我咨询。
不管是哪种情况，记住这个练习的⽬的是利⽤交易去学习如何客观
（从市场的⾓度），就像赌场拥有者⼀样。现在，我们系统是如何运
作的并不重要，但是重要的是要知道如何衡量赢亏⽐（赢利的次数⽐
亏损的次数）。
accepting the risk. a requirement of this exercise is that you know in
advance exactly what your risk is on each trade in your 20-trade sample
size. as you now know, knowing the risk and accepting the risk are two
different things. i want you to be as comfortable as possible with the dollar
value of the risk you are taking in this exercise. because the exercise
requires that you use a 20-trade sample size, the potential risk is that you
will lose on all 20 trades. this is obviously the worst-case scenario. it is as
likely an occurrence as that you will-win on all 20 trades, which means it
isn't very likely. nevertheless, it is a possibility. therefore, you should set up
the exercise in such a way that you can accept the risk (in dollar value) of
losing on all 20 trades.
接受⻛险。这个练习要求你在 20 笔的交易前能提前知道⾃⼰的⻛险是
多少。你清楚，知道和⻛险和接受⻛险是两回事。我希望你能平静地
接受练习中的⻛险。因为这个练习要求你交易 20 笔，潜在的⻛险是你
要亏损 20 笔。显然这是最差的情况。就像你要赢 20 笔⼀样，这也是不
太可能的。然⽽，这就是概率。因此，这个练习的前提是你愿意接受
20 笔的⻛险。

for example, if you're trading s&p futures, your edge might require that you
risk three full points per contract to find out if the trade is going to work.
since the exercise requires that you trade a minimum of three contracts per
trade, the total dollar value of the risk per trade is $2,250, if you use big
contracts. the accumulated dollar value of risk if you lose on all 20 trades is
$45,000, you may not be comfortable risking $45,000 on this exercise.
⽐如，如果你交易标注普尔股指期货，你的优势要求你所冒的⻛险是 3
点 / 合约。因为这个练习要求你⾄少交易 3 份合约，所以总体的⻛险是
2250 元。如果你亏损了 20 笔，那么就是 45000 元。也许这个练习让你亏
损 45000 元会让你觉得不舒服。
if you're not comfortable, you can reduce the dollar value of the risk by
trading s&p mini contracts (e-mini). they are one-fifth the value of the big
contracts, so the total dollar value of the risk per trade goes down to $450
and the accumulated risk for all 20 trades is $9,000. you can do the same
thing if you are trading stocks: just keep on reducing the number of shares
per trade until you get to a point where you are comfortable with the total
accumulated risk for all 20 trades.
如果你不舒服，你可以通过做标注普尔的迷你合约。合同价值是⼤合
同的五分之⼀，所以总体的⻛险是 450 元 / 笔， 20 笔就是 9000 元。股票
也是同理：减少股票数，直到你对 20 笔的总⻛险⽐较舒服为⽌。
what i don't want you to do is change your established risk parameters to
satisfy your comfort levels. if, based on your research, you have determined
that a three-point risk in the s&ps is the optimum distance you must let the
market trade against your edge to tell you it isn't worth staying in the
position, then leave it at three points. change this variable only if it is
warranted from a technical analysis perspective.
我不希望你去改变⻛险参数以让⾃⼰舒服点。如果根据你的研究，你
决定标准普尔 3 点的⻛险是你能承受的最⼤⻛险，那么就是 3 点。除⾮
是技术分析上要求改变这个变数。

if you've done everything possible to reduce your position size and find that
you still aren't comfortable with the accumulated dollar value of losing on
all 20 trades, then i suggest you do the exercise with a simulated brokerage
service. with a simulated brokerage service, everything about the process of
putting on and taking off trades, including fills and brokerage statements, is
exactly the same as with an actual brokerage firm, except that the trades are
not actually entered into the market. as a result, you don't actually have any
money at risk. a simulated brokerage service is an excellent tool to practice
with in real time, under real market conditions; it is also an excellent tool
for forward testing a trading system. there may be others, but the only
service of this nature that i know of is auditrack.com.
如果你尽⼒降低了仓位，还是发现你对 20 笔的⻛险总额不放⼼，我建
议你找模拟经纪公司帮你做这个练习。在模拟经纪公司，交易的所有
过程，包括建仓和平仓，包括费⽤和佣⾦都是和真实的经纪公司⼀
样，只是交易不是真实的。结果是，你不必承受钱的⻛险。模拟经纪
公司是优秀的实战⼯具，在真实的环境下实战，也是⼀个优秀的测试
软件的⼯具。有很多这样的公司，我只知道⼀家叫 auditrack.com 。
doing the exercise. when you have a set of variables that conforms to the
specifications described, you know exactly what each trade is going to cost
to find out if it's going to work, you have a plan for taking profits, and you
know what you can expect as a win-loss ratio for your sample size, then you
are ready to begin the exercise.
做练习。当你的变数和要求的⼀致了，你也知道了每笔的⻛险，你也
有兑现利润的计划，你也知道赢亏⽐，那么你就可以开始练习了。
the rules are simple: trade your system exactly as you have designed it. this
means you have to commit yourself to trading at least the next 20
occurrences of your edge - not just the next trade or the next couple of
trades, but all 20, no matter what. you cannot deviate, use or be influenced
by any other extraneous factors, or change the variables that define your
edge until you have completed a full sample size.

规则很简单：完全按照你的系统交易。这意味着你⾄少要交易 20 笔 --
不是这笔或下⼏笔，⽆论如何，就是所有的 20 笔。在你完成所有的 20
笔之前，你不能受外界的⼲扰，也不能改变变数。
by setting up the exercise with rigid variables that define your edge,
relatively fixed odds, and a commitment to take every trade in your sample
size, you have created a trading regime that duplicates how a casino
operates. why do casinos make consistent money on an event that has a
random outcome? because they know that over a series of events, the odds
are in their favor. they also know that to realize the benefits of the favorable
odds, they have to participate in every event. they can't engage in a process
of picking and choosing which hand of blackjack, spin of the roulette
wheel, or roll of the dice they are going to participate in, by trying to predict
in advance the outcome of each of these individual events.
这个练习⽤死板的变数以定义优势，相对确定了概率，并确定要进⾏
所有的交易，你就创造了⼀个交易系统，它复制了赌场的运作⽅式。
为什么赌场能在随机的结果上持续⼀致地赚钱？因为他们知道，只要
次数过多，他们的概率就⼤。他们同样知道为了实现⾼概率，他们必
须参与每次事件。对于 21 点，轮盘赌和掷⾊⼦，他们⽆法提前预测到
单局的结果。
if you believe in the five fundamental truths and you believe that trading is
just a probability game, not much different from pulling the handle of a slot
machine, then you'll find that this exercise will be effortless - effortless
because your desire to follow through with your commitment to take every
trade in your sample size and your belief in the probabilistic nature of
trading will be in complete harmony. as a result, there will be no fear,
resistance, or distracting thoughts. what could stop you from doing exactly
what you need to do, when you need to do it, without reservation or
hesitation? nothing!
如果你相信 5 个基本的事实，你也相信交易就是概率游戏，和拉吃⾓⼦
⽼虎记得拉杆没有什么不同，那么你就会发现这个练习是轻松的 -- 轻

松是因为你承诺要进⾏所有的交易和你对交易本性是概率这个信念是
⼀致的。结果是，没有害怕、阻⼒、分⼼。什么会阻⽌你必须做的
事？必须做就是毫不保留，毫不犹豫做的事。没有！
on the other hand, if it hasn't already occurred to you, this exercise is going
to create a head-on collision between your desire to think objectively in
probabilities and all the forces inside you that are in conflict with this
desire. the amount of difficulty you have in doing this exercise will be in
direct proportion to the degree to which these conflicts exist. to one degree
or another, you will experience the exact opposite of what i described in the
previous paragraph. don't be surprised if you find your first couple of
attempts at doing this exercise virtually impossible.
另⼀⽅⾯，如果你没有提前知道的话，这个练习会创造⼀个冲突，是
你想客观思考的欲望和你内⼼所有的冲突的欲望之间的碰撞。你做这
个练习的难度和这些冲突的程度成正⽐。在⼀定程度上，你会体验我
上⼀段讲的相反的体验。如果你发现做这个练习很苦难，不要感到吃
惊。
how should you handle these conflicts? monitor yourself and use the
technique of self-discipline to refocus on your objective. write down the
five fundamental truths and the seven principles of consistency, and keep
them in front of you at all times when you are trading. repeat them to
yourself frequently, with conviction. every time you notice that you are
thinking, saying, or doing something that is inconsistent with these truths or
principles, acknowledge the conflict. don't try to deny the existence of
conflicting forces. they are simply parts of your psyche that are
(understandably) arguing for their versions of the truth.
你应该如何处理这些冲突？监视⾃⼰，并⾃律技术聚焦你的⽬标。写
下 5 个基本事实和 7 个持续⼀致性的原则，当交易时，⼀直把它们放在
⾯前。不断地重复它们，要确信。每次你发现你想的、说的、做的都
和这些事实或原则⼀致，你就接受了冲突。不要担⼼对冲突⼒量的拒
绝。这只是你部分的⼼理在要求表达⾃⼰的事实。

when this happens, refocus on exactly what you are trying to accomplish. if
your purpose is to think objectively, disrupt the association process (so you
can stay in the "now moment opportunity flow"); step through your fears of
being wrong, losing money, missing out, and leaving money on the table (so
you can stop making errors and start trusting yourself), then you'll know
exactly what you need to do. follow the rules of your trading regime as best
you can. doing exactly what your rules call for while focused on the five
fundamental truths will eventually resolve all your conflicts about the true
nature of trading.
你的⽬标是客观思考，⽡解联想过程（所以你可以处于 " 现在的机会
流 " ）；逐步体验了害怕犯错、亏损、错过机会、不占优势（这样你就
不会犯错了，开始相信⾃⼰），然后你就知道你要做什么。尽量按照
交易系统的原则去交易。完全按照 5 个基本事实的原则去做，这样就会
最终解决你交易时的所有冲突。
every time you actually do something that confirms one of the five
fundamental truths, you will be drawing energy out of the conflicting
beliefs and adding energy to a belief in probabilities and in your ability to
produce consistent results. eventually, your new beliefs will become so
powerful that it will take no conscious effort on your part to think and act in
a way that is consistent with your objectives.
每次你做的事和 5 个基本事实⼀致，你就把冲突信念的能量转移到概率
的信念，你就有能⼒产⽣持续⼀致的结果。最终，你的新信念就会变
得很强⼤，你就不需要努⼒就能和你的⽬标想的⼀致。
you will know for sure that thinking in probabilities is a functioning part of
your identity when you will be able to go through one sample size of at
least 20 or more trades without any difficulty, resistance, or conflicting
thoughts distracting you from doing exactly what your mechanical system
calls for. then, and only then, will you be ready to move into the more
advanced subjective or intuitive stages of trading.

⼀旦你完成了 20 笔交易或在没有苦难、阻⼒、冲突想法和分⼼的前提
下，按照机械系统的模式交易了更多，你肯定会明⽩概率思考就是你
的⼀部分功能。此时，仅仅是此时，你才会进⼊更主观或直觉的交易
阶段。
A final note
最后的提醒
try not to prejudge how long it will take before you can get through at least
one sample size of trades, following your plan without deviation, distracting
thoughts, or hesitation to act. it will take as long as it takes. if you wanted to
be a professional golfer, it wouldn't be unusual to dedicate yourself to
hitting 10,000 or more golf balls until the precise combination of
movements in your swing were so ingrained in your muscle memory that
you no longer had to think about it consciously.
执⾏你的交易计划时不要有偏离、分⼼或犹豫，也不要担⼼何时才能
完成最后⼀笔交易。如果你想成为优秀的⾼尔夫球⼿，击球 10000 次以
上，以让你的动作和你的肌⾁协调⼀致是很正常，这样，你根本不⽤
去想。
when you're out there hitting those golf balls, you aren't playing an actual
game against someone or winning the big tournament. you do it because
you believe that skill acquisition and practice will help you win. learning to
be a consistent winner as a trader isn't any different.
当你在外⾯打球时，你不是在⽐赛。你这么是因为你相信练习会帮助
你去赢。学习成为⼀个持续⼀致的赢家也是⼀个道理。
i wish you great prosperity, and would say "good luck," but you really won't
need luck if you work at acquiring the appropriate skills.

我祝福你，我想说： " 祝你好运 " ，但是在得到合适的技术⽅⾯，你是
不能依靠运⽓的。
Attitude survey

态度调查
1. to make money as a trader you have to know what the market is going to
do next.
agree disagree
作为交易者，如果要赚钱，你必须知道市场下⼀步会如何。
同意  不同意
2. sometimes i find myself thinking that there must be a way to trade
without having to take a loss.
agree disagree
有时候我想，⼀定有⼀个⽅法，让我交易时不会亏损。
同意  不同意
3. making money as a trader is primarily a function of analysis.
agree disagree
交易者赚钱是分析的基本功能。
同意  不同意
4. losses are an unavoidable component of trading.

agree disagree
亏损是交易中⽆法回避的组成部分。
同意  不同意
5. my risk is always defined before i enter a trade.
agree disagree
我在交易前总是衡量⻛险。
同意  不同意
6. in my mind there is always a cost associated with finding out what the
market may do next.
agree disagree
在我的思想中，要知道市场下⼀步如何是有成本的。
同意  不同意
7. i wouldn't even bother putting on the next trade if i wasn't sure that it was
going to be a winner.
agree disagree
如果我不知道如何才能成为赢家，我是不会交易的。
同意  不同意
8. the more a trader learns about the markets and how they behave, the
easier it will be for him to execute his trades.
agree disagree

交易者对市场及其⾏为越了解，他执⾏交易时就越轻松。
同意  不同意
9. my methodology tells me exactly under what market conditions to either
enter or exit a trade.
agree disagree
我的⽅法明确地告诉我何时进场，何时出场。
同意  不同意
10. even when i have a clear signal to reverse my position, i find it
extremely difficult to do.
agree disagree
即使我有明确的信号要反向建仓，我发现很难做到。
同意  不同意
11. i have sustained periods of consistent success usually followed by some
fairly drastic draw-downs in my equity.
agree disagree
在我的资⾦曲线中，⼀段时间的稳定上涨后，通常紧跟着就是剧烈的
下跌。
同意  不同意
12. when i first started trading i would describe my trading methodology as
haphazard, meaning some success in between a lot of pain.
agree disagree

当我第⼀次交易时，我的交易⽅法是随机的，⼤部分是痛苦，有⼀些
是成功的。
同意  不同意
13. i often find myself feeling that the markets are against me personally.
agree disagree
我总是觉得市场和我作对。
同意  不同意
14. as much as i might try to "let go," i find it very difficult to put past
emotional wounds behind me.
agree disagree
虽然我尽量去 " 放⼿ " ，我发现很难忘记情绪上的创伤。
同意  不同意
15. i have a money management philosophy that is founded in the principle
of always taking some money out of the market when the market makes it
available.
agree disagree
我的资⾦管理哲学是，当市场有利时就兑现部分利润。
同意  不同意
16. a trader's job is to identify patterns in the markets' behavior that
represent an opportunity and then to determine the risk of finding out if
these patterns will play themselves out as they have in the past.
agree disagree